<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="http://rilm.info/ft/tei.css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>RILM - Aptara 5PM Documentation</title>
    </head>
    <body><h3>RILM - Aptara 5PM Protocol</h3>
        <ol>
            <li>For routine tasks for our MGG and Encyclopedias projects, RILM will create a task in 5PM for each MGG volume/Encyclopedias publication. At the same time, RILM
                will create a standard set of subtasks for each task.
            <div>For MGG:<ul>
                        <li>[Volume title] Conversion</li>
                        <li>[Volume title] Acceptance</li>
                    </ul>
            For Encyclopedias:
            <ul>
            <li>[Title] Instructions</li>
                        <li>[Title] Samples</li>
                        <li>[Title] Samples Acceptance</li>
                        <li>[Title] Conversion</li>
                        <li>[Title] Conversion Acceptance</li>
            </ul>
            </div></li>
            <li>
                <p>When subtask is ready to be done, the team currently working on that publication
                    assigns a Task Team to that subtask.</p>
                <p>For Encyclopedias, Aptara will always assign subtasks to Ken, except for the
                    following publications, which will be assigned to Jonathan: Blues,
                    American_Classical, Broadway, and Recorded_Sound, For MGG, all RILM subtasks
                    will be assigned to Jonathan.</p>
                <p>Here is an example: when Aptara is finished creating samples for an Encyclopedias
                    publication, it will assign the Samples Acceptance subtask to Ken. When Ken has
                    accepted the samples, he will assign the Conversion subtask for that publication
                    to those Aptara team members who need to be assigned.</p>
                <p>[Please let us know who should be assigned to these subtasks on Aptara's side: should we assign Raju, Dhanabir, and Bidisha to all subtasks? Just tell us what you would like.]</p>
            </li>
            <li>All Deadlines will be created by RILM.<ul><li>For subtasks RILM assigns to Aptara, RILM will assign a Deadline and a Task Team at the same time.</li><li>For subtasks assigned by Aptara to RILM, RILM will enter a deadline as soon as the the assignment has been received.</li></ul></li>
            <li>When a subtask is completed, the team assigned to it will mark it Done under Status.</li>
            <li>Most tasks and subtasks will have the default (normal) priority. RILM may choose to assign a particular task or subtask a "high" or "urgent" priority in special cases.</li>
            <li>There may be tasks or subtasks that fall outside of these routines, usually related to "out-of-scope" activities. These will be usually discussed in email first, but may also be added to 5PM by RILM.</li>
        </ol>
    </body>
</html>