<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Encycl. of the American Theatre Organ</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="EAT">Encyclopedia of the American Theatre Organ</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201506" title="Added, 6/2015"><p>This publication is in three volumes. The first
        two were edited by David L. Junchen and published in 1985 and 1989. The third volume was
        edited by Preston J. Kaufmann and published in 1995.</p><ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This title should be converted from scanned print.</li>
            <li>Entries can have &lt;div type="heading">, &lt;div type="body">, &lt;div
              type="textBox>, &lt;div type="works">.</li>
            <li>Notes for all entries in a volume are printed at the end of each volume in a section
              called "Footnotes" (even though they are end notes).</li>
            <li>In addition to the hundreds of photos, there are nearly as many facsimiles of
              documents, such as advertisements, catalog pages, and correspondence. These should be
              treated as images, even if they contain only text. Which are which should be clear
              because of different typefaces. If there is any question, please ask.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> for <b>volume 1</b>: frontispiece; title; copyright; dedication;
          foreword (Bowers); About Author; Acknowledgments; Author's Preface; Introduction to the
          American Theatre Organ.<ul>
            <li>Treat the first four pages of the PDF as advertisements.</li>
            <li>The frontispiece contains only a photo and caption "The 6/51 Barton..." Use
              "[frontispiece]" (including the brackets) as the file title</li>
          </ul><b>Front matter</b> for <b>volume 2</b>: frontispiece; title page; copyright page;
          Acknowledgements. <br /></li>
        <li><b>Entries for volumes 1 and 2</b> are listed in <b>tables of contents</b> at the
          beginning of each volume; entries themselves are separated in the pages by very heavy
          horizontal black rules. All entries are &lt;text type="corporate">; <i>except</i> those <a
            href="#persons">listed below</a> that are &lt;text type="person">. <ul>
            <li><b>Headings</b> in print are reproductions of corporate <b>logos</b> and / or
                <b>letterhead</b>. They must be treated as figures within the &lt;div
              type="heading"> with a &lt;figDesc> element containing the name of the firm or
              person.</li>
            <li>"<b>Opus List</b>" sections at the ends of entries can be marked up as &lt;div
              type="works">, but must be tagged as &lt;table>, not as &lt;list>.</li>
            <li><b>Figure captions</b> are printed in italic, with ROMAN used for titles and
              emphasis. [<i>Schuelke ad in the September 1914</i> Diapason<i>, the very month of the
                firm's bankruptcy.</i>] Tag as a normal &lt;p> element, and tag the Roman text as
                "italic".<blockquote>&lt;p>Schuelke ad in the September 1914 &lt;hi
                rend="italic">Diapason&lt;/hi>, the very month of the firm's
                bankruptcy.&lt;/p></blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Volume 3</b> contains much longer entries, all about one manufacturer. The <b>table
            of contents for vol. 3</b> gives entry titles in all caps and section titles in normal
          case.<ul>
            <li>All entries are &lt;text type="topic">.</li>
            <li><b>Front matter</b> for <b>volume 3</b>: frontispiece; title page; copyright page;
              dedication page; "CHARTS..." index; Author's Preface; Acknowledgments; Subscribers
              list.</li><li>Use the <b>titles in all caps</b> as a guide to creating files and file names for volume 3.</li>
          <li>Use the section titles in normal case as a guide to tagging &lt;div type="section">
              elements and the contents of their &lt;head> elements.</li>
            <li>Whole-page boxed texts that are not listed in the table of contents--for example,
              "Capitalization &amp; Other Financial Notes" on p. 25, should be treated as separate
              entries with their own files.</li>
            <li>Biographical vignettes, such as "Franz Rudolph Wurlitzer" can be tagged as a &lt;div
              type="textBox"> in the entry in which it appears, such as "The House of
              Wurlitzer."</li>
            <li><b>Back matter</b> for volume 3: Illustration acknowledgements; References (a
              bibliography in sections).</li></ul></li>
      </ol><p>Please refer also to sample files.</p><p><a id="persons">American Theatre Organ "Person"
        entries:</a></p><p>James Bennett
          <br/>John E. Byington
          <br/>N. Doerr
          <br/>H. A. Howell
          <br/>Thos. Kelly
          <br/>Benjamin F. Lenoir
          <br/>E.C. Malakey
          <br/>Earl Pavette
          <br/>James N. Reynolds
          <br/>F. R. Smith
          <br/>E. A. Spencer
          <br/>Herman Stahl
          <br/>Edward Stein
          <br/>Bernard Van Wyck
          <br/>Conrad Preschley
          <br/>August A. Klann
          <br/>Emil Meurling
          <br/>Herman Stahl
          <br/>C. Weilber
        </p></div></body>
</html>
