<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Annals of Opera</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>Annals of Opera</div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201506" title="Added, 6/2015">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This publication should be converted from scanned print.</li>
            <li>Each article is dedicated to a single musical work. </li>
            <li>Articles are arranged chronologically by year. </li>
            <li>Each article lists performances of the work in paragraph form or list form, or
              both.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> includes a title page; copyright page; dedication page; Preface;
          Abbreviations; Introduction; and epithet.<ul>
            <li> Set the Abbreviations list and Principal Theatres list as two-column tables.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Entries</b> are arranged in chronological order by year. The following information is
          given in the <i>first three lines</i> of type: <ol>
            <li>Composer surname in small caps, colon, <i>work title</i> in Italic type</li>
            <li>Date of premiere in italic type, period, city (and venue) of the premiere</li>
            <li>Text author name, period, structure of the work</li>
          </ol>Various informations follow, depending on the entry. Treat the first line as a
          &lt;div type="heading">. Tag the lines as<ol>
            <li>&lt;rilmPerson> and &lt;title></li>
            <li>&lt;rilmPerformance type="ur"></li>
            <li>another &lt;rilmPerson></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li><b>Performances</b> may appear in a list or in a paragraph. The example files show both
          styles of presentation. For items in a list, tag as a &lt;list> with each &lt;item>
          containing a &lt;rilmPerformance>. </li>
        <li>The <b>Back Matter</b> comprises four indexes: (1) Operas (meaning "titles"); 2.
          Composers; 3. Librettists; 4. General. <ul>
            <li>Tag the Index of Operas as a &lt;list></li>
            <li>For the indexes of Composers and Librettists, add the composer and librettist into
              the TEI header of the appropriate entry as shown in the example files. Add an @corresp
              attribute to link the name with the form in the &lt;div type="heading">.</li>
            <li>Treat the General index as per the general instructions.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
