<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Biographical Dictionary of Musicians</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="biographical-brown">Biographical Dictionary of Musicians</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201506" title="Added 6/2015">
      <ol>
        <li>This publication should be converted from scanned print.</li>
        <li><b>General comments:</b><ul>
            <li>All entries are &lt;text type="person"></li>
            <li>Entries may contain any or all of the following sections, always in this order: <ul>
                <li>Name</li>
                <li>Biographical facts and figures in chronological order</li>
                <li>worklist</li>
                <li>essay</li>
                <li>bibliography</li>
              </ul>All four should be sibling &lt;div> elements.</li>
            <li>Worklists and bibliographies may be divided into sections, marked by words in italic
              type.</li>
            <li>Double quotes ( “  ” ) indicate titles throughout.</li>
              
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> will include the original title page (the one that carries the date
          1886); Preface; and list of Abbreviations.</li>
        <li><b>Entries</b> are headed with the name form "<b>SURNAME (Forename Forename
            NameLink).</b>" For the &lt;title> element in the TEI header, omit the parentheses and
          add a comma after the surname (SURNAME, Forename NameLink). For the &lt;body>, keep the
          parentheses as in the original. See the example files.<ul>
            <li>Wrap the entire contents of the first paragraph in &lt;rilmPerson> tags.</li>
            <li>The name is followed immediately by nationality and occupation.</li>
            <li>Birth and death information are indicated by "B." and "D." The death information
              comes at the end of the paragraph. </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Worklists</b> are headed with the work "W<small>ORKS</small>." Omit the m-dash.  
        <ul><li>Items in the worklist are inline (no line breaks between), and are delimited by period <i>or</i>
              by semicolon.</li>
            <li>Worklists may be divided into sections, according to category. These sections have
              inline heads in italic type, such as <i>Operas:</i> or <i>Songs:</i></li></ul></li>
        <li><b>See references</b> are in the form [<b>ZOTTI (Carlo).</b> See C<small>ROAL</small>
          (George).] Handle according to the general instructions.</li>
        <li><b>Back matter</b> includes Appendix of Additions and Corrections; and a Bibliographical
          Subject-Index. Set both as lists. Make a new &lt;div> for each section in the bibliography
          with a Bold heading.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
