<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
        <title>Das Blasmusik-Lexikon</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <a id="blasmusik"></a> <h4 class="r201412" title="Added 12/2014">Das
            Blasmusik-Lexikon (dbl)</h4> <ol>
                <li class="r201501" title="Added 01/2015">Most entries will be &lt;text type="person">. Those can be identified by a heading with
                    boldface surname followed by a non-boldface forename. Entries with headings that are entirely
                    boldface should have &lt;text type="topic">.</li>
                <li class="r201412" title="Added 12/2014">Each entry contains a heading, a biographical paragraph, and (usually) one or more of the
                    following lists: Werke (works), Bearbeitungen (arrangements), Märsche (marches), Schriften
                    (writings), Aufsätze (essays), and Literatur (bibliography). Lists with the heading
                    "Literatur" should be in a &lt;div type="ography">. All others should be in a &lt;div
                    type="works"></li>
                <li class="r201412" title="Added 12/2014">Bibliographies: Lists with the heading "Literatur" are bibliographies. These lists are set
                    inline with each item separated by a semi-colon. Do not tag anythin in these lists; each item
                    should go in a &lt;bibl>.</li>
                <li class="r201412" title="Added 12/2014">Works lists: All other lists (such as those with headings "Werke", "Bearbeitungen",
                    "Märsche", "Schriften", or "Aufsätze") are works lists. These lists have one item per line.
                    For these lists, tag all text up to the first comma as &lt;title>. Tag a four-digit year at
                    the end of the item as &lt;date>; and tag anything between "bearb." and the next comma as
                    &lt;editor type="arranger">, as in the following
                    examples:<blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Les Goyescas&lt;/title>, Intermezzo, bearb.
                        &lt;editor type="arranger">Pierre Dupont&lt;/editor>, Martin
                        &lt;date>1986&lt;/date>&lt;/bibl>.&lt;/item></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Ouvertüre
                            zu &lt;q>Lucrezia Borgia&lt;/q>&lt;/title>, bearb. &lt;editor
                            type="arranger">Dörle&lt;/editor>, Schulz (A = B).</blockquote> </li>
                <li class="r201412" title="Added 12/2014">Front- and back matter: The following sections should each be set in a single file: "Zum
                    Geleit" (p. 5), "Vorwort" (pp. 7-10), and "Abgekürzt zitierte Literatur" (pp. 13-18) following
                    the instructions above.</li>
                <li class="r201501" title="Added 01/2015">See references: If the name that is the source of a see-ref also appears in the heading of
                    the destination entry, the source entry can be ignored. For example, If the source entry
                    is<blockquote>Abel Lex, s. Max Leemann</blockquote>and heading of the destination entry is <blockquote>Leeman Max (Pseud. Lex Abel)</blockquote> The entry with "Abel Lex, s. Max Leemann" can simply be ignored.</li>
            </ol> 
    </body>
</html>