<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Concise Garland Encyclopedia of World Music, The</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="concise-garland">Concise Garland Encyclopedia of World Music, The</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201502" title="Added, 2/2015; updated 4/14/2015">
      <ol>
        <li>This publication should be converted from the provided XML.</li>
        <li>Use <a href="../tei_rilm_instructions.html#american" target="_blank">American rule</a>
          for single quotation marks.</li>
        <li>The tags &lt;xref ref-type="page"/> should be converted to the TEI element &lt;pb> with
          @n containing the page number: <blockquote>&lt;xref ref-type="page"
            id="page_2"/><br /><br /> &lt;pb n="2"/></blockquote></li>
        <li>The list of Contributing Authors beginning on page xx should be set as a series of
          lists, one &lt;list> corresponding to each &lt;sec> that has a &lt;title> (Africa, etc.)
          Each item may be tagged with &lt;rilmPerson>, and &lt;affiliation> containing
          &lt;persName>, &lt;orgName> and &lt;placeName>. Do not tag &lt;forename> and &lt;surname>
          because East-Asian names are given in different order. <blockquote>&lt;p>Laura
            Arntson&lt;break/>Public Health Institute,&lt;break/>USAID Nigeria&lt;break/>Abuja,
            Nigeria&lt;/p><br /> &lt;p>Fremont E. Besmer&lt;break/>City College of the City
            University of New York&lt;break/>New York, New York,
            U.S.A.&lt;/p></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;item><br />&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Laura
            Arntson&lt;/persName> &lt;affiliation>&lt;orgName type="uni">Public Health Institute,
            USAID Nigeria&lt;/orgName> &lt;placeName>Abuja,
            Nigeria&lt;/placeName>&lt;/affiliation>&lt;/rilmPerson><br /> &lt;/item>
            <br />&lt;item><br /> &lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Fremont E. Besmer&lt;/persName>
            &lt;affiliation>&lt;orgName type="uni">City College of the City University of New
            York&lt;/orgName>&lt;placeName>New York, New York,
            U.S.A.&lt;/placeName>&lt;/affiliation>&lt;/rilmPerson><br />
            &lt;/item><br /></blockquote></li>
        <li> The List of Reviewers beginning on page xxv should be treated the same.</li>
        <li>The <a href="#cgw-articles">table at the bottom of this page</a> will be your guide to
          dividing this publication into separate files. The source XML is inconsistent in the way
          certain types of items are tagged and nested, so you will need to refer to the list. <ul>
            <li>Some articles are identifiable by a &lt;book-part> element that has an @id attribute
              beginning "chapter". Others begin with a &lt;sec> element. The table gives the chapter
              number and/or range of section numbers to include in each article. </li>
            <li>Where the title in the list below and the contents of &lt;title> in the source
              differ, please use the title in the list below.</li>
            <li>All articles are &lt;text type="topic"> and will have @head and @body. Not every
              article will include an @ography.</li>
          </ul> The TEI samples for this publication show conversions from each style of source
          markup. </li>
        <li>Sections within an article--&lt;sec> elements in the source xml beginning with a
          &lt;title>--EXCEPT THOSE LISTED IN THE TABLE BELOW as starting an article--should begin a
          new &lt;div type="section"> with a &lt;head> element. <blockquote>&lt;sec id="S627">
            &lt;title>Origins of &lt;italic>Conjunto&lt;/italic> Music&lt;/title> &lt;p>The
            beginnings of &lt;italic>conjunto&lt;/italic> music can be
            traced...</blockquote><blockquote>&lt;div type="section"> &lt;head>Origins of &lt;hi
            rend="italic">Conjunto&lt;/hi> Music&lt;/head> &lt;p>The beginnings of &lt;hi
            rend="italic">conjunto&lt;/hi> music can be traced...&lt;/p>&lt;/div> </blockquote></li>
        <li>&lt;boxed-text> elements in the source should be converted to a &lt;div type="textBox">.
          If the &lt;boxed-text> tag is followed by a &lt;caption>&lt;title>, tag the contents of
          &lt;title> as &lt;head>.</li>
        <li>Quotations from song lyrics enclosed in a &lt;verse-group> and &lt;verse-line> elements
          should be placed within the preceding &lt;p> element (if present; otherwise in its own),
          in &lt;lg> tags, with each line in its own &lt;l> tag: <blockquote>&lt;verse-group>
            <br />&lt;verse-line>That which is Nyama,&lt;/verse-line><br /> &lt;verse-line>All
            things are hidden under Nyama,&lt;/verse-line><br /> &lt;verse-line>Nyama is not hidden
            under anything.&lt;/verse-line><br /> &lt;/verse-group></blockquote><blockquote> &lt;lg>
            <br />&lt;l>That which is Nyama,&lt;/l> <br />&lt;l>All things are hidden under
            Nyama,&lt;/l> <br />&lt;l>Nyama is not hidden under anything.&lt;/l><br />&lt;/lg>
          </blockquote></li>
        <li>Author names come at the end of the body text in a &lt;sig-block> element. Inside the
          nested &lt;sig> element, there is an introductory phrase, such as
            <blockquote>&lt;sig-block><br /> &lt;sig><br /> &lt;italic>—Adapted from an article by
            Laura Arntson&lt;/italic><br /> &lt;/sig><br /> &lt;/sig-block></blockquote> Place these
          in a &lt;byline> inside a &lt;div type="authors">. Do not distinguish &lt;forename> and
          &lt;surname>, because East Asian names are given in a different order. Omit the
          &lt;italic> tags: <blockquote> &lt;div type="authors">&lt;byline>—Adapted from an article
            by &lt;docAuthor>&lt;persName>Laura
            Arntson&lt;/persName>&lt;/docAuthor>&lt;/byline>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
        <li>The &lt;sc> tag is used in two contexts in this publication: for B.C.E. and C.E.
          indications and for "see" references to other articles in the publication. <ul>
            <li>See-references are in-line within the article texts and begin with a bracket: "[See
              ". These occur without any markup other than that for small capital letters (&lt;sc>)
              within &lt;p> elements in the source XML. Set these references as a &lt;ref> element
              targeting the approriate article. <blockquote>&lt;p>One type of music became popular
                all over southern Africa: the &lt;italic>makwaya&lt;/italic>, from the English word
                &lt;italic>choir&lt;/italic>. It involved singing, complex marching routines, and
                special costumes. Adaptations of jazz in responsorial form, accompanied by drumming
                and dancing, have become popular with young people. [See B&lt;sc>LACK&lt;/sc>
                P&lt;sc>OPULAR&lt;/sc> M&lt;sc>USIC IN&lt;/sc> S&lt;sc>OUTH&lt;/sc>
                A&lt;sc>FRICA&lt;/sc>.]&lt;/p></blockquote><blockquote> &lt;p>One type of music
                became popular all over southern Africa: the &lt;hi rend="italic">makwaya&lt;/hi>,
                from the English word &lt;hi rend="italic">choir&lt;/hi>. It involved singing,
                complex marching routines, and special costumes. Adaptations of jazz in responsorial
                form, accompanied by drumming and dancing, have become popular with young people.
                [See &lt;ref target="cgw000??>Black Popular Music in South
                Africa&lt;/ref>.]&lt;/p></blockquote><i>NB: One such reference points to two
                articles.</i></li>
            <li>Convert the contents of all &lt;sc> elements to lower-case letters, and then remove
              the &lt;sc> tags. Then, change the text "b.c.e." and "c.e." to upper-case "B.C.E." and
              "C.E." </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Bibliographies in the source XML are tagged inconsistently. Sometimes they are a
          &lt;sec> element with &lt;title>Bibliography&lt;/title>, and sometimes they are a
          &lt;ref-list> element inside a &lt;back> element. Treat these equally as &lt;div
          type="ography"> and tag the items according to the <a href="/ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#tfbibl"
            >table for Taylor &amp; Francis bibliographies</a> on the main instruction page. </li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to the provided xml samples.</p>
      <p>
        <br />
        <a id="cgw-articles">
          <b>Table of articles</b> and their ranges in the source</a>
      </p>
      <table>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>
              <b>sec id </b>
            </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <b>title</b>
            </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <b>author</b>
            </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Foreword: Beyond the Borders of World Music</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Philip V. Bohlman</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2-S3</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Preface </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S4</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Editorial Board</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S5-S10</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Contributing Authors volume 1</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S11-S16</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Reviewers volume 1</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S17</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Audio Examples volume I</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter1</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Africa</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S18-S24</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Profile of Africa </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ruth M. Stone</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S25-S34</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>African Music in a Constellation of the Arts </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ruth M. Stone</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter1a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>West Africa</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S35-S51</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>West Africa: An Introduction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jacqueline Cogdell DjeDje; Fremont E. Besmer</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S52-S63</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Yorùbá Popular Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Christopher A. Waterman</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S64-S71, bibliography</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Praise Singing in Northern Sierra Leone </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Laura Arntson</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter1b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>North Africa</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S72-S84</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>North Africa: An Introduction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Caroline Card Wendt</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S85-S97</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Tuareg Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Caroline Card Wendt</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter1c</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>East Africa</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S98-S108</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music and Poetry in Somalia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>John William Johnson</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S109-S126</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music in Kenya </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Paul N. Kavyu; Jean Ngoya Kidula</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter1d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Central Africa </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S127-S136</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Central Africa: An Introduction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gerhard Kubik</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S137-S138</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Popular Music in the Congos</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Angela Impey</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter1e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Southern Africa</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S139-S158</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Indigenous Music of Southern Africa </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>John E. Kaemmer</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S159-S168</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music of the Shona of Zimbabwe</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>John E. Kaemmer</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S169-S176</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Black Popular Music in South Africa </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>David B. Coplan</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S177-S189</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music of Madagascar: An Overview </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ron Emoff</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter2</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>South America, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S190-S202</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>A Profile of the Lands, Peoples, and Musics of South America, Mexico, Central
              America, and the Caribbean</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Dale A. Olsen; Anthony Seeger</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter2a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music of Native South Americans: Q'eros and Warao </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S203-S210</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Q'eros </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>John Cohen; Holly Wissler</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S211-S225</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Warao </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Dale A. Olsen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter2b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>South America</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S226-S229</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Argentina: Tango </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ercilia Moreno Cha</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S230-S246</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Brazil: Central and Southern Areas </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Suzel Ana Reily</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S247-S261</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Brazil: Northeast Area </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Larry Crook</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S262-S274</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Afro-Brazilian Traditions</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gerard Béhague</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S275-S287</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Afro-Colombian Popular Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Michael Birenbaum Quintero</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S288-S300</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Peru </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Raul R. Romero; William David Tompkins</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S301-S317</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Venezuela</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Max H. Brandt</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter2c</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mexico: One Country, Many Musics</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S318-S323</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mexica (Aztec or Nahua People) </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Arturo Chamorro</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S324-S344</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mexico </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Daniel E. Sheehy</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter2d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Central America</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S345-S354</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Maya </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Linda O'Brien-Rothe</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S355-S362</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Garifuna Music in Belize</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Oliver Greene</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S363-S365</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Marimbas of Guatemala</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Linda O'Brien-Rothe</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S366-S380</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Panama </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ronald R. Smith; Dale A. Olsen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter2e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Caribbean</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S381-S393</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Bahamas </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Vivian Nina Michelle Wood</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S394-S410</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Cuba </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Olavo Alén Rodriguez</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S411-S429</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Dominican Republic </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Martha Ellen Davis</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S430-S442</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jamaican Traditional Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Daniel Tannehill Neely; Olive Lewin; Gage Averill</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S443-S451</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Martinique</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Monique Desroches</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S452-S456</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Popular Music in Trinidad and Tobago </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Lorna McDaniel; Gage Averill; Helen Myers</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter3</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The United States and Canada</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S457-S465</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The United States and Canada as a Unified Musical Culture </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ellen Koskoff</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter3a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music of American Indians and First Peoples in the United States and Canada</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S466-S472</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Overview [Music of American Indians and First Peoples]</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Charlotte Heth</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S473-S487</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musical Instruments [American Indians and First Peoples]</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>J. Richard Haefer</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S488-S499</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musicmaking in Arctic Canada and Alaska </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Nicole Beaudry</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S500-S506</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Metis </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Anne Lederman</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S507-S514</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Great Basin </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Brenda M. Romero; Judith A. Gray</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S515-S529</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Plains </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Erik D. Gooding</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter3b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The United States</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S530</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>African-American Musics</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S531-S539</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Religious Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mellonee V. Burnim</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S540-S552</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Blues</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>David Evans</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S553-S565</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jazz: From Birth to the 1970s</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ingrid Monson</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S566-S570</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hip-Hop and Rap: From Birth to the 1980s</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Dawn M. Norfleet</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter3c</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>European-American Musics</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S572-S574</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Overview [European-American Musics]</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Carl Rahkonen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S575-S579</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>English and Scottish Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Chris Goertzen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S580-S584</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Traditional Irish Dance Music and Song </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Rebecca S. Miller </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S585-S595</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Country and Western</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Charles K. Wolfe; Neil V. Rosenberg</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S596-S602</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>French-American Music in Louisiana </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Carl Rahkonen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S603-S608</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Polish Polka </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mark Levy</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S609-S612</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Early Jewish Pop Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mark Slobin</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S613-S619</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Birth of Rock: A Musical Interaction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Rob Bowman</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter3d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Latin Musics</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S620-S625</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Overview [Latin Musics]</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Daniel E. Sheehy; Steven Loza; Steven Cornelius</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S626-S632</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Tejano Music: <i>Conjunto </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jose R. Reyna</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter3e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Asian-American Musics</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S633-S640</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Overview [Asian-American Musics]</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Terry E. Miller</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S641-S644</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Tyagaraja Festival in Cleveland, Ohio </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Claire Martin</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter3f</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Canada</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S645-S649</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Anglo Music in Atlantic Canada </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Anne Lederman</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S650-S657</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>French Folk and Pop in Quebec </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gordon E. Smith; Val Morrison</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S658-S663</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Development of Classical Music in Ontario </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Elaine Keillor; Robin Elliott</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S664-S667</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Caribbean and Latin American Music</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Annemarie Gallaugher; Robert Witmer</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S668-S673</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Intercultural Traditions on the Canadian Prairies </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Beverley Diamond</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S674-S680</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>British Columbia: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Beverley Diamond</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S681-S682</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jody Berland</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Europe</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S683-S695</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Music of Europe: Unity and Diversity </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Timothy Rice</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S696-S704</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>A Guide to Pronunciation</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Brian Patrick Fox</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S705-S711</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Song Genres </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>James Porter</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music Cultures of Europe</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Transnational Ethnic Groups</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S712-S718</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Romani (Gypsy) Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Carol Silverman</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S719-S723</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Basque Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Denis Laborde</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4c</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>United Kingdom and Ireland</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S724-S728</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>England </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Vic Gammon</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S729-S740</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>British Rock and Pop, 1950s to 1970s</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gordon R. Thompson</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S741-S748</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Scotland</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>James Porter</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S749-S757</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ireland </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hugh Shields; Paulette Gershen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Northern Europe</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S758-S765</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Iceland </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Pandora Hopkins</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S766-S777</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Norway </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Pandora Hopkins</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S778-S783</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sweden</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jan Ling; Erik Kjellberg; Owe Ronström</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S784-S796</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Denmark </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Svend Nielsen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S797-S801</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Finland</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Timo Leisiö</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Western Europe</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S802-S814</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Low Countries </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Wim Bosmans</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S815-S821</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>France </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hugh Shields</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S822-S829</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Portugal </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Salwa El-Shawan Castelo-Branco</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S830-S839</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Spain </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Elizabeth Miles; Loren Chuse</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S840-S852</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Italy </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Marcello Sorce Keller</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4f</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Central Europe</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S853-S861</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Germany </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Wilhelm Schepping</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S862-S866</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Austria </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Chris Goertzen; Edward Larkey</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S867-S880</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Switzerland </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Johanna Hoffman; Silvia Delorenzi-Schenkel</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S881-S889</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Poland </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ewa Dahlig </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S890-S899</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Czech Republic and Slovakia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Magda Ferl Želinská; Edward J. P. O'Connor</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S900-S906</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hungary </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Judit Frigyesi; James Porter</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4g</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Eastern Europe</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S907-S919</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Russia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Izaly Zemtsovsky</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S920-S928</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ukraine </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>William Noll</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter4h</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Balkans</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S929-S948</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Romania </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Valeriu Apan</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S949-S957</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Bulgaria </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Timothy Rice</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S958-S965</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Greece </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jane K. Cowan</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter5</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Oceania</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S966-S971</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Profile of Oceania </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter5a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>New Guinea</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S972-S984</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Music and Dance of New Guinea</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler; Don Nile</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S985-S992</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Papuan Region of Papua New Guinea </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Don Niles; Virginia Whitney</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S993-S1019</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Highland Region of Papua New Guinea </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Don Niles; Andrew J. Strathern; Vida Chenoweth; Paul W Brennan; Jacqueline
              Pugh-Kitingan</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1020-S1026</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mamose Region of Papua New Guinea </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Don Niles; Richard Scaglion; Alice Pomponio</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1027-S1038</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Papua Province of Indonesia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Vida Chenoweth; Kathleen Van Arsdale; Artur Simon</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter5b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Australia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1039-S1072</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Traditional Music and Dance of Australia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Stephen A. Wild; Allan Marett; JoAnne Page; Grace Koch; Linda Barwick; Catherine J.
              Ellis; Tamsin Donaldson; Margaret Gummow; Robin Ryan; Herbert Patten</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter5c</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Melanesia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1073</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Music and Dance of Melanesia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1074-S1090</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Island Region of Papua New Guinea </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Don Niles; Gerald Florian Messner; Michael Gunn</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1091-S1105</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Solomon Islands </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler; Don Niles; Vida Chenoweth; Jacob Wainwright Love; Hugo Zemp</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1106-S1115</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>New Caledonia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jean-Michel Beaudet; Raymond Ammann</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1116-S1117</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Upright Log Instruments of Vanuatu</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler; Peter Russell Crowe</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter5d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Micronesia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1118-S1138</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Music and Dance of Micronesia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Barbara B. Smith; Eve C. Pinsker; Deirdre Marshall; Mary E. Lawson Burke </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter5e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Polynesia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1139-S1145</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Music and Dance of Polynesia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler; Jacob Wainwright Love; Lamont Lindstrom </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1146-S1172</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>West Polynesia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler; David Goldsworthy; Jacob Wainwright Love </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1173-S1200</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>East Polynesia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adrienne L. Kaeppler; Jane Freeman Moulin; Amy Ku'uleialoha Stillman; Takiora Ingram;
              Jon Tikivanotau M. Jonassen; Allan Thomas; Te Ahukaramū Charles Royal; Jennifer
              Shennan </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>back/glossary</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Glossary</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Middle East</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1201-S1205</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hearing the Music of the Middle East </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Stephen Blum</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1206-S1217</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Guide to Transliteration and Pronunciation</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>compiled by Dwight Reynolds</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1218-S1219</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theorizing about Musical Sound </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Virginia Danielson; Alexander J. Fisher</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1220-S1242</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musical Instruments in the Arab World</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Scheherazade Qassim Hassan</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>North Africa: The Maghrib</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1243-S1257</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>North Africa: Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>L. JaFran Jones</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1258-S1270</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Andalusian <i>Nūba </i>in Morocco </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Habib Hassan Touma</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1271-S1276</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>Malḥūn: </i>Colloquial Song in Morocco </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Philip D. Schuyler</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1277-S1287</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Urban Folk and Popular Music in Algeria </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jürgen Elsner; Bezza Mazouzi</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Eastern Arab World: The Mashriq </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1288-S1300</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Overview of Music in the Mashriq </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>A.J Racy </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1301-S1307</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Islamic Hymnody in Egypt</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Al-Inshād al- Dīnī Michael Frishkopf</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1308-S1317</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musical Life in Aleppo, Syria </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Christian Poch</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6c</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Arabian Peninsula</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1318-S1333</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Arabian Peninsula: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Jean Lambert</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1334-S1343</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Women's Music of the Arabian Peninsula </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Kay Hardy Campbell</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Armenia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1344-S1353, bibliography</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music of Armenia </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Manuk Manukyan</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Kurdistan</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1354-S1365, bibliography</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Kurdistan </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Dieter Christensen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6f</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Turkey</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1366-S1382</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Turkey: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ursula Reinhard; Irene Markoff; Yıldıray Erdener; Karl Signell</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1383-S1387</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Mevlevi Dervishes </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Walter Feldman</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6g</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Iran</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1388-S1404</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Classical Music of Iran: An Introduction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Margaret Caton; Stephen Blum</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6h</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Central Asia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1405-S1413</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Central Asia: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theodore Levin</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1414-S1421</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Classical Music of Uzbeks and Tajiks </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theodore Levin; Razia Sultanova</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1422-S1432</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Music of Turkmenistan</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sławomira Żerańska-Kominek</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter6i</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Israel</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1433-S1439</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Israel: An Overview </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Edwin Seroussi; Gila Flam</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter7</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>South Asia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1440-S1446</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Profile of South Asia and its Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Alison Arnold</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1447-S1449</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Transliteration and Orthography</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Alison Arnold</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter7a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Classical Traditions</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1450-S1457</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hindustani <i>Raga: </i>An Introduction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>George Ruckert; Richard Widdess</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1458-S1463</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hindustani <i>Tala: </i>An Introduction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>James R Kippen</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1464-S1475</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hindustani Instruments</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Allyn Miner </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1476-S1504</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hindustani Vocal Music</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Bonnie C. Wade </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1505-S1516</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hindustani Instrumental Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Stephen Slawek </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1517-S1528</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Karnatak <i>Raga</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gayathri Rajapur Kassebaum </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1529-S1532</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Karnatak <i>Tala </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>David Paul Nelson</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1533-S1548</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Karnatak Instruments</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>David B. Reck</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1549-S1566</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Karnatak Vocal and Instrumental Music</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Amy Catlin</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter7b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Film Music in India</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1567-S1574</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Film Music: North India </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Alison Arnold</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1575-S1580</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Film Music: South India </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Paul D. Greene</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter7c</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>India</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1581-S1598</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gujurat </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gordon R. Thompson</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1599-S1619</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Uttar Pradesh </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Edward 0. Henry; Scott L. Marcus</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1620-S1641</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Karnataka</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gayathri Rajapur Kassebaum; Peter J. Claus</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter7d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Pakistan</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1642-S1645</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music in Pakistan: An Introduction</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Regula Burckhardt Qureshi; Hiromi Lorraine Sakata</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1646-S1656</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Punjab </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Adam Nayyar</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter7e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Afghanistan</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1657-S1669</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music in Afghanistan: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>John Baily; Veronica Doubleday</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter7f</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sri Lanka</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1670-S1684</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sri Lanka </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Anne Sheeran</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter8</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>East Asia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1685-S1692</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>A Profile of East Asian Musics and Cultures </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>J Lawrence Witzleben</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter8a, S1693</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>China</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1694-S1698</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>China: A Musical Profile</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>J Lawrence Witzleben</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1699-S1705</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Chinese Music Theory </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Chen Yingshi</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter8b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musical Genres</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1706-S1712</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Folk Song </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Qiao Jianzhong</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1713-S1716</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The <i>Bayin </i>Instrument Classification System</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Dale Wilson</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1717-S1722</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Instruments: <i>Qin</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Bell Yung</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1723-S1730</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Instruments: <i>Pipa</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>John Myers</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1731-S1734</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Instruments: <i>Zheng </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>J Lawrence Witzleben</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1735-S1739</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Instruments: <i>Erhu</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Terence M. Liu </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1740-S1746</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ensembles: Northern Chinese </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Stephen Jones </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1747-S1750</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ensembles: <i>Chuida </i>Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Li Minxiong</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1751-S1756</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ensembles: <i>Jiangnan Sizhu </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>J Lawrence Witzleben</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1757-S1761</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ensembles: The Modern Chinese Orchestra </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Tsui Ying-fai</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1762-S1770</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Instrumental Music: Structures and Performance Practices </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Alan R. Thrasher</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1771-S1778</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Narrative Song: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Francesca Rebollo Sborgi; Tsao Penyeh</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1779-S1785</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Chinese Opera: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Bell Yung; Rutan Chao Pian; Isabel K. F Wong</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1786-S1788</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Confucian Ceremonial Music</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>JosephS. C. Lam</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1789-S1792</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Religious Music in China: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Tsao Penyeh; Li Wei</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1793-S1797</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>The Naxi </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Helen Rees</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter8c, S1798</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Japan</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1799-S1806</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musical Profile of Japan </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Tokumaru Yosihiko; Tukitani Tuneko</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1807-S1812</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Folk Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Gerald Groemer </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1813-S1815</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Shinto Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Tanigaito Kasuko </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1816-S1824</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Buddhist Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sawada Atsuko</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1825-S1835</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>Gagaku</i>
            </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Terauchi Naoko</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1836-S1837</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theatrical Genres: An Overview</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Okuyama Keiko; Heinz-Deiter Reese</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1838-S1848</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theatrical Genres: <i>Nô </i>and <i>Kyôgen</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Takakuwa Izumi</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1849-S1851</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theatrical Genres: <i>Kabuki </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Motegi Kiyoko</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1852-S1856</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theatrical Genres: <i>Bunraku</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Motegi Kiyoko </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1857-S1860</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theatrical Genres: <i>Gidayû busi</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Yamada Tieko </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1861-S1864</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Chamber Music Traditions </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ônuki Tasiko</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1865-S1867</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>Ziuta: </i>Chamber Music for <i>Syamisen</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Nogawa Mihoko</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1868-S1874</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>Sôkyoku: </i>Chamber Music for <i>Koto </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ônuki Tasiko </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1875-S1879, bibliography</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Chamber Music for <i>Sankyoku </i>Ensembles</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Nogawa Mihoko; Simura Satosi; Tokumaru Yosihiko</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter8d</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Korea </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1880-S1882</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musical Profile of Korea </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Andrew P. Killick</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1883-S1888</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Musical Instruments [Korea]</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Andrew P. Killick; Hwang Byung-ki</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1889</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Traditional Genres</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1890-S1892</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Confucian Ritual Music in Korea: <i>Aak </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Robert C. Provine</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1893-S1898</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Court Music and <i>Chŏngak</i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Robert C. Provine </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1899-S1906</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Korean Religious Music: Buddhist </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Lee Byong Won </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1907-S1911</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Korean Religious Music: Shamanic </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Lee Bohyung </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1912-S1917</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Folk Song </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Robert C. Provine</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1918-S1931</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>P'ansori </i>
            </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hae-Kyung Um</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1932-S1933</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>Sanjo </i>
            </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hwang Byung-ki</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1934-S1945</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>Kagok, Sijo, </i>and <i>Kasa </i></p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Hae-Kyung Um</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1946-S1950</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>
              <i>Nongak (P'ungmul Nori) </i>
            </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Keith Howard</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter8e</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Inner Asia: Mongolia and Tuva </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1951-S1964</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mongol Music </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Carole Pegg </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1965-S1974</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Music in Tuva </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Theodore Levin</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter9</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Southeast Asia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1975-S1983</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Southeast Asian Musics: An Overview </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Terry E. Miller; Sean Williams</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1984-S1995</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Guide to Pronunciation</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Thomas John Hudak</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S1996-S2013</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Waves of Cultural Influence </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Terry E. Miller; Sean Williams</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter9a</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Mainland Southeast Asia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2014-S2025</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Cambodia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sam-Ang Sam </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2026-S2039</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Thailand </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Terry E. Miller </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2040-S2047</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Laos </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Terry E. Miller </p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2048-S2057</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Burma </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Ward Keeler</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2058-S2065</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Peninsular Malaysia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>James Chopyak; Patricia Matusky</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2066-S2080</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Vietnam </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Phong T. Nguyễn</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2081-S2087</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Minority Musics of Vietnam </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Phong T. Nguyễn</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>chapter9b</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Island Southeast Asia</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p></p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2088-S2096</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sumatra </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Margaret J. Kartomi</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2097-S2128</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Java</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Sean Williams; R. Anderson Sutton</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2129-S2141</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Bali </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>David Harnish</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>
            <p>S2142-S2167</p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Philippines </p>
          </td>
          <td>
            <p>Corazon Canave-Dioquino; Ramon P. Santos; Jose Maceda</p>
          </td>
        </tr>
      </table>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
