<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Dizionario Enciclopedico Universale della Musica e dei Musicisti - Biografie</title>
  </head>
    <body>
        <div>
            <h4 id="DEU">Dizionario Enciclopedico Universale della Musica e dei Musicisti [DEUMM]
                    part 1 - <i>Biografie</i>
               </h4>
        </div>
        <div class="r2021" title="Added, 11/2021">
               <p></p>
               <p>[<b><i>*Last Revised 2022/03/01*</i></b> Revisions are indicated by "<b><i>*NEW</i></b>".]</p>
            <p>The first stage of RILMs conversion of <i>DEUMM</i> will be the 10-volume <b><i>Biografie</i></b>. You will produce a PDF for each of the volumes (scanned at 300 dpi, grayscale, and OCR text in Italian), plus article-level TEI files.</p>
        </div>
        <div><h5>1. General principles:</h5><ul>
                <li>Each volume of the <i>Biografie</i> has a different <b>year</b> and <b>ISBN</b>,
                    given on the copyright page of each. The correct values should be included in
                    the TEI header of each article.</li>
                <li><b>xml:id's</b>: <i>DEUMM online</i> will be a continually updated resource, so
                    each &lt;div>, &lt;p>, and &lt;bibl> element must have a unique identifier: an
                    xml:id element containing "id-" followed by a UUID. For example: &lt;p
                    xml:id="id-f11a99bb-5a84-12df-f1b2-b9374b7da8ab">. The following <b>six</b>
                    elements require an @xml:id : <br />– &lt;bibl>, &lt;div>, &lt;docAuthor>,
                    &lt;figure>, &lt;p>, &lt;rilmPerson>, &lt;rilmPerformance></li>
                <li>The <i>Biografie</i> volumes include articles on <b>persons</b>,
                    <b>families</b>, and <b>corporations</b>.</li>
                <li>There are <b>short, medium, and long</b> articles.<ul>
                        <li><b>Short</b> articles contain <ul>
                                <li><i>one paragraph</i> of body text, often, but not always,
                                    followed by</li>
                                <li>a <i>worklist</i> and/or ~<i>ographies</i>.</li>
                            </ul></li>
                        <li><b>Medium</b> articles contain <ul>
                                <li><i>one paragraph</i> of body text in normal-sized type, followed
                                    by </li>
                                <li><i>one or more paragraphs in slightly smaller type</i>, then </li>
                                <li>a worklist or ~ographies.</li>
                            </ul></li>
                        <li><b>Long</b> articles contain <ul>
                                <li>multiple sections of body text, with headers in small caps,
                                    followed by </li>
                                <li>one or more <i>tabular worklists</i> and </li>
                                <li>one or more ~ographies.</li>
                            </ul></li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li><b>Abbreviation of names</b> within articles: In medium and long articles, every
                    mention of the person the article is about is abbreviated to the first letter of
                    the surname after the first paragraph. Such abbreviations should be expanded to
                    the full surname. For example, in the article "<b>Schönbach, Dieter</b>", the
                    second paragraph begins:<br /> [La produz. di S. prende le mosse,… ]<br />The
                    "S." should be expanded to "Schönbach".</li>
                <li><b>General abbreviations</b> (listed in front matter): Each volume has a list of
                        <b>Abbreviations</b> ("<b>Abbreviazione</b>") in the front matter. Where
                    these abbreviations are used in the articles, they should be <i>expanded to the
                        full word or phrase</i>. For the example above, the abbreviation "produz."
                    is listed in the Abbreviazione as "produzione". For the example given above, the
                    full rendition should be:<blockquote>&lt;p>La produzione di Schönbach prende le
                        mosse,...</blockquote></li>
                <li><b><i>*NEW 3/1/2022*</i></b>
                    <b>Identification of Named individuals</b> with IDs from RILMs database of
                    persons: RILM will provide a list of <b>personal names and dates</b> along with
                    integer IDs, in .csv or other similar format. The &lt;rilmPerson> tag applied to
                    the name of the person the article is about should have an @xml:id attribute
                        <i>and</i> a @key attribute that contains the ID. For example, "Schönbach,
                    Dieter" appears in the list with ID "16488". Thus, the name would be tagged
                        :<blockquote>&lt;rilmPerson xml:id="id-d70f1dc4-4171-11ec-81d3-0242ac130003"
                        key="16488">&lt;hi
                        rend="bold">&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Schönbach&lt;/surname>
                        &lt;forename>Dieter&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>&lt;/hi>...
                            </blockquote><b><i>*NEW 1/1/2022*:</i></b> If a name cannot be matched
                    with those in the list provided by RILM, include an empty @key attribute
                    (key='').</li>
                <li><b>Typography</b>: render all <i>single quotes</i> as ’ (hex2019); <i>double
                        quotes</i> (« ») as &lt;q> tags <i>(except in bibliographies; see
                        below).</i></li>
                <li><b>Typography</b>: <b>normalize case</b> where small caps are used in the print
                    (particularly in bibliographies).</li>
                <li><b>Typography</b>: superscript "o" used as an ordinal (as in "50º", meaning
                    "50th") should be encoded as hex00ba ("masculine ordinal"), <i>not</i> as
                    hex00b0 ("degree sign"), <i>nor</i> as a &lt;hi> element.</li>
                <li><b><i>*NEW 3/1*</i></b>: <s><b>Images</b> in <i>Biografie</i> are limited to
                        family tree diagrams. These should be captured as PNG images. These will be
                        referenced in the TEI in a &lt;figure> element (with an @xml:id attribute),
                        containing a &lt;graphic> element with a @url attribute pointing to the
                        image file.</s></li>
            </ul><h5>2. Front matter:</h5><ul>
                <li>Front matter of <b><i>Biografie</i> vol. 1</b> consists of the following:<ul>
                        <li>[Title page]</li>
                        <li>[Copyright page]</li>
                        <li><b>Avverteze per la consultazione</b></li>
                        <li><b>Abbreviazione</b></li>
                        <li><b>Elenco dei Collaboratori del primo volume</b></li>
                    </ul>
                    <i>Omit the half-title page.</i>
                </li>
                <li><b>For <i>volumes 2-8</i></b>, capture <i>only</i><ul>
                        <li>[Copyright page]</li>
                        <li><b>Elenco dei Collaboratori del primo volume</b></li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>For the Appendice (1990), capture<ul>
                        <li>[Copyright page]</li>
                        <li><b>Prefazione</b></li>
                        <li><b>Abbreviazione</b></li>
                    </ul>
                    <i>Omit the other front-matter pages.</i>
                </li>
            </ul><h5>3. Short &amp; Medium person articles:</h5><p>1-6 paragraphs of body text, followed by worklists and/or bibliographies in paragraph form.</p><ul>
                <li>The following data are given in the <b>first sentence</b> of short and medium
                    articles, in this order: <b>Surname, Forename(s).</b> Occupation(s) nationality.
                    (birth place name, dd-MM-yyyy - death place name, dd-MM-yyyy). Use the name in
                    bold as the &lt;title> in the TEI header. <b><i>*NEW 2/14/2022*</i></b> Begin
                    the &lt;body> with a &lt;div type="subheading">.<br /> [<b>Balfoort, Dirk
                        Jacobus.</b> Musicologo e violinista oland. (Utrecht, 19-VII-1886 - L’Aia,
                        11-XI-1964).]<blockquote>&lt;div
                        type="subheading"><br />&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;hi
                        rend="bold">&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Balfoort&lt;/surname>,
                        &lt;forename>Dirk&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;forename>Jacobus&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>&lt;/hi>.
                        &lt;occupation>Musicologo&lt;/occupation> e
                        &lt;occupation>violinista&lt;/occupation>
                        &lt;nationality>&lt;abbr>oland.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/nationality>
                        (&lt;birth>&lt;placeName>Utrecht&lt;/placeName>,
                        &lt;date>19-VII-1886&lt;/date>&lt;/birth> -
                        &lt;death>&lt;placeName>L’Aia&lt;/placeName>,
                        &lt;date>11-XI-1964&lt;/date>&lt;/death>)&lt;/rilmPerson>....&lt;/p>&lt;/div> </blockquote><ul>
                        <li>If an additional name or names appears in italic, in parentheses
                            immediately following the bold type or after the word "nata", tag it
                            with &lt;surname type="alt">:<br /> [<b>Baliani, Carlo</b>
                                (<i>Bagliani</i>, <i>Balliani</i>,
                                <i>Basiliani</i>).]<blockquote>&lt;persName>&lt;hi
                                rend="bold">&lt;surname>Baliani&lt;/surname>,
                                &lt;forename>Carlo&lt;/forename>&lt;/hi> (&lt;surname
                                type="alt">Bagliani&lt;/surname>, &lt;surname
                                type="alt">Balliani&lt;/surname>, &lt;surname
                                type="alt">Basiliani&lt;/surname>)&lt;/persName></blockquote></li>
                        <li>If an additional name or names appears in italic in parentheses after
                            the word "detto", tag it with &lt;forename type="alt">:<br /> [<b>Corea,
                                Armando Anthony</b> (detto
                                <i>Chick</i>)]<blockquote>&lt;persName>&lt;hi
                                rend="bold">&lt;surname>Corea&lt;/surname>,
                                &lt;forename>Armando&lt;/forename>
                                &lt;forename>Anthony&lt;/forename>&lt;/hi> (detto &lt;forename
                                type="alt">Chick&lt;/forename>)&lt;/persName></blockquote></li>
                        <li>If the additional name has a qualifier "prop.", "pseud. di", or "nome
                            d’arte di", tag the italic name in a <i>separate</i> &lt;persName>
                            element with @type="alt" within the same &lt;rilmPerson> element:<br />
                                [<b>Colonne, Edouard</b> (pseud. di <i>Jules-Edouard
                                Judas</i>).]<blockquote>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;hi
                                rend="bold">&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Colonne&lt;/surname>,
                                &lt;forename>Edouard&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>&lt;/hi> (pseud. di
                                &lt;hi rend="italic">&lt;persName
                                type="alt">&lt;forename>Jules-Edouard&lt;/forename>
                                &lt;surname>Judas&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/hi>).</blockquote></li>
                        <li>If a birth or death date is given as a <i>year only</i>, with no other
                            qualifier such as "ca.", include @precision="medium" in the &lt;date>
                            tag.</li>
                        <li>If a date is given with a preceding "ca.", such as "ca. 1733", include
                            @precision="low".</li>
                        <li>If any of the birth or death information is given as "?", then leave the
                            affected element empty or with a "?", then include @precision="unknown"
                            in the affected element:<br /> [(?, 1543 - Parma,
                                13-III-1627)]<blockquote>&lt;birth>&lt;placeName
                                precision="unknown">?&lt;/placeName>, &lt;date presision="medium"
                                when="1543" when-custom="1543">1543&lt;/date>&lt;/birth> -
                                &lt;death>&lt;placeName>Parma&lt;/placeName></blockquote></li>
                        <li>If a range of dates is given for birth or death information, use @from
                            and @to instead of @when, and also include @precision="low":<br />
                                [<b>Dufay, Guillaume</b>. Compositore franco-fiamm. (prob. Fayt,
                            Hainaut, ca. 1390-1400 - Cambrai, 27-XI-1474).]<blockquote>&lt;div
                                type="subheading"><br />&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Dufay&lt;/surname>,
                                &lt;forename>Guillaume&lt;/forename>.
                                &lt;occupation>Compositore&lt;/occupation>
                                &lt;nationality>franco-fiamm.&lt;/nationality> (&lt;birth>prob.
                                &lt;placeName precision="low">Fay, Hainaut&lt;/placeName> &lt;date
                                from="1390" to="1400"
                                precision="low">1390-1400&lt;/date>&lt;/birth></blockquote></li>
                        <li><b><i>*NEW 2/14/2022*</i></b> If the death <i>place</i> is given as
                                <b>"ivi"</b>, please replace this with the place given for the
                            birth:<br /> [(Roma, 1821 - ivi, ottobre
                                1894)]<blockquote>&lt;birth>&lt;placeName>Roma&lt;/placeName>,
                                &lt;date presision="medium" when="1821"
                                when-custom="1821">1821&lt;/date>&lt;/birth> -
                                &lt;death>&lt;placeName>Roma&lt;/placeName>, &lt;date
                                precision="medium" when="1894-10-01" when-custom="1894">ottobre
                                1894&lt;/date>&lt;/death></blockquote></li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li><b>Worklists</b> may be headed "Compos.", "Ediz.", or "Scritti". <ul>
                        <li><b><i>*NEW 2/14/2022*:</i></b> Wrap the entire worklist in a single
                            &lt;div type="works">.</li>
                        <li>Normalize the case of the heading, <i>spell out "Composizioni" or
                                "Edizioni"</i>, and tag as &lt;head>.</li>
                        <li>Parse the run-on into a &lt;list> using <i>paren-semicolon-space</i>
                                "<b>); </b>" as the delimiter between &lt;item>s.</li>
                        <li>Tag italic text as &lt;title>.</li>
                        <li><b><i>*revised 1/2022*:</i></b> Where the word "per" appears, tag the
                            Roman text after "per" as &lt;instrumentation>.</li>
                        <li>If there is Roman text between italics and the word "per", tag as
                            &lt;genre></li>
                        <li>Tag text in parentheses as &lt;placeName> (if given) and &lt;date></li>
                        <li>Omit the semicolon and final period.</li>
                    </ul>
                    <br /> [C<small>OMPOS</small>. (ord. cronol.): <i>Les caprices de Marianne</i>,
                    mus. di scena (1960); <i>Pour un dix août</i> per 2 v. recit., TB, coro e orch.
                    (1971); 4 essais pour une fête per 4 soli, coro e orch.
                        (1973).]<blockquote>&lt;div type="works"><br />&lt;head>Composizioni (ord.
                        cronol.):&lt;/head><br />&lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Les
                        caprices de Marianne&lt;/title>, &lt;genre>mus. di scena&lt;/genre>
                        (&lt;date>1960&lt;/date>)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Pour
                        un dix août&lt;/title> per &lt;instrumentation>2 v. recit., TB, coro e
                        orch.&lt;/instrumentation>
                        (&lt;date>1971&lt;/date>)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>4
                        essais pour une fête&lt;/title> per &lt;instrumentation>4 soli, coro e
                        orch.&lt;/instrumentation>
                        (&lt;date>1973&lt;/date>)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;/list><br />&lt;/div></blockquote>[S<small>CRITTI</small>:
                        <i>De hollandsche vioolmakers</i> (Amsterdam; 1931); <i>Eigenartige
                        Musikinstrumente</i> (L'Aia, 1932).]<blockquote>&lt;div
                        type="works"><br />&lt;head>Scritti:&lt;/head><br />&lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>De
                        viool en hare meesters&lt;/title> (&lt;placeName>L’Aia&lt;/placeName>, s.
                        a.)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item> &lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>De hollandsche
                        vioolmakers&lt;/title> (&lt;placeName>Amsterdam&lt;/placeName>,
                        &lt;date>1931&lt;/date>)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Eigenartige
                        Musikinstrumente&lt;/title> (&lt;placeName>L’Aia&lt;/placeName>,
                        &lt;date>1932&lt;/date>)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;/list><br />&lt;/div></blockquote><br /><b>Longer</b>
                    worklists will be divided into sections with heads that may begin a new line, or
                    continue on the same line. The division between sections can be found with the
                    pattern "<b>). </b>", that is, <i>closing paren-period-space</i>. Start a new
                    &lt;div type="section"> here. Use the text up to the following colon as
                    &lt;head>:<br /> [...1916). Per orch.: 5
                        sinfonie...]<blockquote>...&lt;date>1916&lt;/date>).&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list>&lt;/div><br />&lt;div
                        type="section"><br />&lt;head>Per
                        orch.:&lt;/head><br />&lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>5
                            sinfonie...</blockquote><br /><b><i>NB:</i></b> Many worklists will end
                    with a miscellaneous grouping of works indicated by "Inoltre", "Inoltra", or
                    "altra". Again, use "<b>); </b>" to distinguish &lt;items>, <i>but do not tag as
                        </i>&lt;bibl><i>. Please see the example files for this.</i></li>
                <li><b>Bibliographies</b> are headed "B<small>IBL</small>.:" The individual entries
                    are separated by semicolon-space ("<b>; </b>") just like the worklists. <ul>
                        <li>Tag italic text as &lt;title></li>
                        <li><i>Note that when the subject's name appears in the title of a
                                bibliographic reference, it will be abbreviated. They should be
                                expanded.</i></li>
                        <li>Tag names before the title as &lt;author> and &lt;persName></li>
                        <li>Tag text within angle quotation marks as &lt;title
                            type="periodical"></li>
                        <li>Tag info in parentheses as &lt;placeName>, &lt;date>, and/or
                            &lt;edition> as needed:</li>
                    </ul>From an article on "<b>Štejnberg, Maksimilian</b>":<br />
                        [B<small>IBL</small>.: A. N. R<small>IMSKIJ</small>-K<small>ORSAKOV</small>,
                    M. Š. Mosca, 1928; V. B<small>OGDANOV-</small>B<small>ERESOVSKIJ</small>, M. Š.,
                    ivi, 1947; M. G<small>NESIN</small>, M. Š in «Sovetskaja Muzyka»,
                        1946;…]<blockquote>&lt;div
                        type="ography"><br />&lt;head>Bibliography:&lt;/head><br />&lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;persName>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>A.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;forename>&lt;abbr>N.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;surname>Rimskij-Korsakov&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/author>,
                        &lt;title>Maksimilian Štejnberg&lt;/title> &lt;pubPlace>Mosca&lt;/pubPlace>,
                        &lt;date>1928&lt;/date>&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;persName>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>V.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;surname>Bogdanov-Beresovskij&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/author>,
                        &lt;title>Maksimilian Štejnberg&lt;/title>,
                        &lt;pubPlace><b>Mosca</b>&lt;/pubPlace>,
                        &lt;date>1947&lt;/date>&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;persName>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>M.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;surname>Gnesin&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/author>, &lt;title
                            <b>type="article"</b>>Maksimilian Štejnberg&lt;/title>, in &lt;title
                            <b>type="periodical"</b>>Sovetskaja Muzyka&lt;/title>,
                        &lt;date>1946&lt;/date>&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;/list></blockquote><ul>
                        <li><b><i>N.B. 1:</i></b> The indication <b>"ivi"</b> in bibliographies
                            means "in the same place". It should be replaced with the value of the
                            &lt;pubPlace> element in the &lt;bibl> immediately before. This is
                            highlighted in the second &lt;item> of the example above.</li>
                        <li><b>N.B. 2: </b>In a bibliography (not elsewhere), <b>double quotes («
                                »)</b> around a phrase <b>in Roman type</b> identify it as a
                                <b>periodical</b> title. set @type to "periodical", and the @type of
                            the &lt;title> before it to "article". These are also highlighted in the
                            example above. <i>If double quotes appear within Italic type, tag as</i>
                            &lt;q>.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul><h5>4. Family articles</h5><p>These begin with the family surname, followed by the word "Famiglia". Then follow <i>numbered</i> articles--each follows the format of the short person articles, except that only forenames are given, and in italic. Compare:<br />- Short person article: [<b>Schuman, William Howard</b>. Compositore amer. (New York, 4-VIII-1910).]<br />- Short family article, person: [- <b>1</b>) <i>William Howard</i>. Compositore amer. (New York, 4-VIII-1910).]</p><ul>
                <li>Use the bold family name as &lt;title> in the TEI header.</li>
                <li>Tag the first line(s) as &lt;div type="subheading">&lt;p>.</li>
                <li>Tag the family surname as &lt;rilmPerson xml:id="id-xxx">&lt;persName>&lt;hi
                    rend="bold">&lt;surname>...</li>
                <li>If one or more surname variants are given in italic, tag &lt;surname
                    type="alt">.</li>
                <li>Tag the last word of the first &lt;p> as &lt;nationality>.</li>
            </ul>[<b>Škroup</b> (<i>Skraup</i>). Famiglia di musicisti
                boemi.]<blockquote>&lt;rilmPerson xml:id="id-000">&lt;persName>&lt;hi
                rend="bold">&lt;surname>Škroup&lt;/surname>&lt;/hi> (&lt;hi
                rend="italic">&lt;surname type="alt">Skraup&lt;/surname>&lt;/hi>)&lt;/persName>.
                Famiglia di musicisti
                &lt;nationality>boemi&lt;/nationality>.&lt;/rilmPerson></blockquote><ul>
                <li>Wrap each of the individual person articles in a &lt;div type="person">, and
                    within it, &lt;div type="bio">, &lt;div type="works">, or &lt;div
                    type="ography"> as needed. </li>
                <li>Add a @corresp element to the &lt;rilmPerson> element pointing to the @xml:id of
                    the &lt;rilmPerson> containing the family name.</li>
                <li>Treat worklists and bibliographies just as in stand-alone person
                    articles.<p><i>See example file "deu00003.xml".</i></p></li>
                <li><b><i>*NEW 3/1/2022*</i></b>: Many family articles will include a genealogical
                    diagram. These should be captured as PNG images. <b>Create a &lt;div
                        type="genealogy"> inside the &lt;div type="subheading"></b>. Reference the
                    image file in a &lt;figure> element (with an @xml:id attribute), containing a
                    &lt;graphic> element with a @url attribute containing the image file name. </li>
            </ul><h5>5. Long person articles</h5><p>These begin like short articles, but there will be a "S<small>OMMARIO</small>" section following the birth-death information. The sommario is a list of sections in the body text of the article, like a table of contents:<br />  [<b>Skrjabin, Aleksandr Nikolaevič</b> (<i>Skriabin</i>). Compositore e pianista russo (Mosca, 25-XII-1871/6-I-1872 - ivi, 14/27-IV-1915). S<small>OMMARIO: I. La vita, il pensiero. II. L’opera sinfonica. - III. Il pianoforte.</small>…]</p><ul>
                <li>Tag the name, occupation, nationality, and birth and death data just like short
                    person articles.</li>
                <li><i>Omit the Sommario</i>.</li>
                <li>Tag the first &lt;div> as @type="subheading", and subsequent sections (indicated
                    by heads) as &lt;div type="section">.<br /></li>
                <li><b>Worklists</b> in long person articles are often a combination of
                        <b>tables</b> and <b>lists in paragraph form</b>.<ul>
                        <li>Such worklists are <b>headed</b> "C<small>ATALOGO</small>
                                D<small>ELLE</small> O<small>PERE</small>", in small caps. Use this
                            as &lt;head> for the &lt;div type="works">.</li>
                        <li><b><i>*NEW 2/14/2022*:</i></b> Wrap the entire worklist in a single
                            &lt;div type="works">; sections within it tag as &lt;div
                            type="section">.</li>
                        <li><b><i>*NEW 2/14/2022*:</i></b> In columns headed "Rappresentazione"
                            ("performance"), the entire contents of each &lt;cell> should be wrapped
                            in a &lt;rilmPerformance> element. Tag the word before the comma as
                            &lt;placeName>, after it as &lt;orgName type="performing">, and tag the
                            &lt;date>.</li>
                        <li><b><i>*NEW 2/14/2022*:</i></b> In columns headed "Edizione", tag the
                            text before the comma as &lt;publisher>, and the place name after the
                            comma as &lt;pubPlace>. </li>
                        <li>Many worklists in long person articles will include an <b>introductory
                                paragraph</b> or paragraphs. Tag these as &lt;p>, tag italics as
                            &lt;hi>, and replace double-quotes with &lt;q> tags.</li>
                        <li>Each <b>table</b> or <b>list</b> will have its own <b>heading</b> in
                            small caps. Begin a new &lt;div type="section"> and use the text in
                            small caps as &lt;head>.</li>
                        <li><b>Tables vary</b> in the number of columns and in column headings. Tag
                            the first row as @role="label". Use "—" (hex 2014) where dashes indicate
                            missing or repeated values. </li>
                        <li>Tables that span <b>two or more pages</b> will have <i>"Segue:"</i>
                            ("continue") at the top of the page. Continue these in the same
                            &lt;table> element, and omit the "Segue" text. Do not repeat the label
                            row of the table.<br /><i>See example file "deu00004.xml".</i></li>
                        <li><b>Worklists in paragraph form</b> may come before, between, or after
                            tables. Note that in example deu00004.pdf, the lists headed
                                "M<small>USICA</small> V<small>OCALE</small>: b)" actually begins on
                            the page <i>before</i> the table headed "M<small>USICA</small>
                                V<small>OCALE</small>: a)"!</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul><h5>6. Corporate
                articles</h5><p>Articles on corporations are included in the <i>Biografie</i>. The first sentence of the article states the role of the institution, and nationality:<br />  [<b>Bärenreiter-Verlag</b>. Casa editrice mus. ted., con sede a Kassel e Basilea, fondata ad Auststa nel 1923 da Karl → V<small>ÖTTERLE</small>.]</p><blockquote>&lt;orgName>&lt;hi
                rend="bold">Bärenreiter-Verlag&lt;/hi>&lt;/orgName>. Casa editrice mus. ted., con
                sede a Kassel e Basilea, fondata ad Auststa nel 1923 da Karl &lt;ref
                target="deu00000">Vötterle&lt;/ref>.</blockquote><p>Tag only the corporate name as &lt;orgName>. Treat ~ographies the same as in person and family articles. <i>(<a href="deumm-biografie.xhtml#8">see no. 8, below</a>, about the arrow).</i></p><h5>7.
                &lt;docAuthor>s and
                editors</h5><p>Many articles will have an author given after the end of the text, justified right in small caps. (See example files "deu00005"). Make a &lt;div type="authors"> for this, and wrap the author's name in &lt;docAuthor> and &lt;persName> with tags for &lt;forename> and &lt;surname>.</p><blockquote>&lt;div
                type="authors">&lt;persName>&lt;forename>Paulheinz&lt;/forename>
                &lt;surname>Beck&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/div></blockquote><p>Frequently, a <i>translator's</i> name will also be given, on the same line, justified left in normal case, in parens, preceded by "trad.":<br /> [(trad. Vera Bertolino)]<br />Place these in the same &lt;div type="authors">, but in a separate &lt;docAuthor> element. Add an @type attribute with value "translator" to the &lt;docAuthor>.</p><blockquote>&lt;docAuthor
                role="translator">(trad. &lt;persName>&lt;forename>Vera&lt;/forename>
                &lt;surname>Bertolino&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>)&lt;/docAuthor></blockquote><ul>
                <li><i><b>NB:</b> Although the translator's name appears first</i> in the print,
                    reading left to right, <i>include it in the TEI after the true author</i>.</li>
                <li>In rare cases, there will be more than one true author in small caps. Again, tag
                    the two authors' names in the same &lt;div> but separate &lt;docAuthor>s.</li>
                <li>In rarer cases, there may be <i>two</i> true authors <i>and</i> a translator. </li>
                <li>As an extreme example, this appears in vol. II:<br /> (trad. Velia
                    Donadei-Giacosa) NORBERT DUFOURCQ e RÉMY STRICKER<br /> (catalogo e bibl. a cura
                    della Redazione)<br />In this case, you would tag the two authors, then the
                    translator, then add the note in a &lt;p> element, still inside the same &lt;div
                        type="authors">.<blockquote>&lt;div type="authors">
                        &lt;docAuthor>&lt;persName>&lt;forename>Norbert&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;surname>Dufourcq&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/docAuthor><br />&lt;docAuthor>&lt;persName>&lt;forename>Rémy&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;surname>Stricker&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/docAuthor><br />&lt;docAuthor
                        role="translator">(trad. &lt;persName>&lt;forename>Velia&lt;/forename>
                        &lt;surname>Donadei-Giacosa&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>)&lt;/docAuthor><br />&lt;p>(catalogo
                        e bibl. a cura della Redazione)&lt;/p><br />&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
            </ul><h5>7. See-references</h5><p>An article <i>heading</i> followed by a right-pointing arrow (→), followed by text in small caps, indicates a see-reference:<br /> [<b>De Ana, Francesco</b> → A<small>NA</small>, F<small>RANCESCO</small> D’.]<br />Do not make an XML file or PDF for these, but treat them as described at <a href="http://rilm.info/ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#see-refs">http://rilm.info/ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#see-refs</a></p>
            <h5 id="8">8. Cross-references</h5><ul>
                <li>A right-pointing arrow (→) or by a wavy right-pointing arrow (⤳) <i>within the
                        body text</i> indicates a cross reference, or see-also reference. </li>
                <li>A straight arrow indicates a target within the same part of the
                    encyclopedia—from <i>Biografie</i> to <i>Biografie</i>, for example. </li>
                <li>A wavy arrow indicates a target in a different part of the encyclopedia—from
                        <i>Biografie</i> to <i>Lessico</i>, for example. </li>
                <li>They might point to a whole article, or to a section within an article:<br /> (⤳
                        D<small>ULCE</small> M<small>ELOS</small>) or (→ H<small>OMER</small>,
                    2)<br />The first points to the whole "Dulce Melos" article in the
                        <i>Lessico</i> part of the encyclopedia. The second points to person number
                    2 in the family article on "Homer" in the <i>Biografie</i> part.</li>
                <li><b><i>*NEW 1/1/2022*:</i></b> The text "cfr. §" indicates a reference to another
                    section <i>within the same article:</i> (cfr. § <i>Musica vocale</i>, a). The
                    text following "§" gives the &lt;head> and head:@n of the &lt;div> that is
                    targeted. <i>There are examples in the file deu00004.xml.</i></li>
            </ul><p>Tag a reference to a whole article as a &lt;ref> element with @target containing the value of the @xml:id of the &lt;text> element of the target article. Tag a reference to a section with @target containing the concatenated @xml:id of the &lt;text> target, "#", and the @xml:id of the &lt;div>: </p><blockquote>&lt;ref
                target="deu00000">Dulce Melos&lt;/ref></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;ref
                target="deu11111#id-9b05e5d0-5cf9-11ec-bf63-0242ac130002">Homer,
                2&lt;/ref></blockquote>
            <p>NB. <i>Omit</i> the arrow character from the TEI; the link created by the &lt;ref> tag will mark the reference.</p>
            <p><i>NB 2. Because we must convert the Biografie part first, the @target references to other parts of the encyclopedia must be given a placeholder value.</i></p>
            <h5>Appendice (1990)</h5><ul>
                <li>Apart from the front matter capture noted above, <b>articles</b> in the 1990
                        <i>Appendice</i> volume should be treated exactly as the ones in the eight
                    main volumes.</li>
                <li>The Appendice volume ends with "<b>Musicisti e interpreti deceduti nel corso
                        della pubblicazione dell’opera</b>", a list of persons who died after the
                    main volumes were published, giving name, and death data.<br /> [<b>Agosti,
                        Guido</b> (pp. 27-28): Milano, 2-VI-1980]<br />This information should be
                    added to the <b>Agosti</b> article from <i>Biografie</i> vol. 1. The original
                    reads:<br /> [<b>Agosti, Guido</b>. Pianista ital. (Forlì,
                    11-VIII-1901).]<br />Add " - " (space-hyphen-space) to this, followed the death
                    data and tag:<br /> [<b>Agosti, Guido</b>. Pianista ital. (Forlì, 11-VIII-1901 -
                    Milano, 2-VI-1980).<blockquote>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;hi
                        rend="bold">&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Agosti&lt;/surname>,
                        &lt;forename>Guido&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>&lt;/hi>.
                        &lt;occupation>Pianista&lt;/occupation>
                        &lt;nationality>&lt;abbr>ital.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/nationality>
                        (&lt;birth>&lt;placeName>Forlì&lt;/placeName>, &lt;date when="1901-08-11"
                        when-custom="1901">11-VIII-1901&lt;/date>&lt;/birth> -
                        &lt;death>&lt;placeName>Milano&lt;/placeName>, &lt;date when="1980-06-02"
                        when-custom="1980">2-VI-1980&lt;/date>&lt;/death>)&lt;/rilmPerson></blockquote></li>
            </ul><h5>Appendice 2005 </h5><p>The second Appendice volume, titled <i>Appendice 2005</i>, consists of two parts:</p><ol>
                <li>The first part contains both <i>supplements</i> to articles published in the
                        <i>Biografie</i> volumes (including the first <i>Appendice</i>) and
                        <i>entirely new</i> articles.<ul>
                        <li><b>Supplements</b> are indicated by a volume and page number reference
                            in brackets, immediately following the article heading, such as<br />
                            <b>Austin, William Weaver</b> [I: 174]. <br />or, in family articles,
                            after the individual member's name:<br /> - <b>2</b>) <i>Massimo</i> [I:
                            84].<br />Treat exactly like articles in the main volumes,
                                    <i><b>except</b></i> add the phrase " [supplement] to the
                            &lt;title> element in the TEI
                                header.<blockquote>...&lt;titleStmt>&lt;title>Austin, William Weaver
                                [supplement]&lt;/title>...</blockquote></li>
                        <li><b>New articles</b>
                            <i>do not</i> have brackets following the heading, and thus are
                            formatted just like other articles in the <i>Biografie</i> volumes and
                            first <i>Appendice</i> volume. They should be tagged the same as
                            those.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li><i><b>*NEW 2/15/2022*:</b></i> The second part, subtitled <i>Repertorio delle
                        voci biografiche del DEUMM ordinate per categoria</i>, contains a series of
                    name indexes organized by occupation. For now, tag each index as a &lt;div
                    type="section"> and as a &lt;list>. Tag the name as &lt;persName> with
                    &lt;forename> and &lt;surname> as appropriate.</li>
            </ol></div>
    </body>
</html>
