<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Dictionnaire de musique</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="DMQ">Dictionnaire de musique par J.J. Rousseau</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201506" title="Added, 5/2016">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This publication should be converted from PDF. Two PDF files for each of the two
              volume are available; one with color page images, one black-and-white. <ul>
                <li>The black-and-white will be the source for the text content of the TEI
                  files.</li>
                <li>We will use the color page images for display.</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Low and high left-facing double quotation marks ( „ ” ) are used.</li>
            <li>Long s (ſ) is used throughout. Please keep these in the content.</li>
          <li>All entries are &lt;text type="topic">.</li>
            <li>Entries will have no &lt;div type="heading">, &lt;div type="subheading">, OR &lt;div
              type="ography>. </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> will include the title page, <b>Préface</b>, and
            <b>Avertissement</b> for volume 1, and a title page of volume 2.</li>
        <li><b>Back matter</b> in volume 2 comprises <b>Approbation</b> and <b>Privilege du Roi</b>.
          There are also fold-out sheets with images--in both PDFs these were scanned without
          unfolding and cannot be read.</li>
        <li><b>Titles of entries</b> are given in the type in small capitals. Accents on capital
          letters are offset to the right of the character they apply to. Please convert the small
          caps to normal case and normalize the accents: [H<small>YME</small>´<small>E</small>;
            M<small>E</small>´<small>DIATION</small>;
            R<small>E</small>´<small>SONNANCE</small>]<blockquote>Hymeé; Médiation;
            Résonnance</blockquote><b>Tag</b> the entry title as &lt;term>. </li>
        <li>Words in small caps within an entry may be tagged as &lt;term></li>
        <li><b>Long quotations</b> Long quotations include a left (opening) quotation mark at the
          beginning of each line of type. Omit all but the first.</li>
        <li><b>See references</b> are in the form [T<small>ERM</small> (Voyez
          T<small>ARGET</small>.)] Where there is more than one target, they are separated by
          commas: [(Voyez S<small>UPPOSITION</small>, S<small>USPENSION</small>.)]</li>
        <li><b>Cross references</b> within articles are in the same form: (Voyez
            T<small>ARGET</small>.)</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
