<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Dictionnaire de la musique (Honegger)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="BAA">Dictionnaire de la musique (Honegger)</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201506" title="Added, 6/2015">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This publication should be converted from scanned print</li>
            <li>Articles will have &lt;div type="heading">, &lt;div type="body">, and one to three
              &lt;div type="ography>. </li>
            <li>French-style double-angle quotation marks ( « » ) are used.</li>
            <li>In body text and worklists, italic type is used to indicate <i>titles</i>, so tag
              with &lt;title> rather than &lt;hi>.</li>
            <li>In bibliographies, titles are in Roman type. </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b>:<ul>
            <li><u>Vol. 1:</u> title page; copyright page; "Liste des collaborateurs" (tag as
              &lt;list>); "Liste des abréviations" (tag as a &lt;table> with two columns);
              "Préface"; "Bibliographie générale"; "Remarques" (set as body text, use bold in the
              left column as heads).</li>
            <li><u>Vol. 2</u>: only title page; copyright page; and "Liste des abréviations"</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Initial paragraphs for entries on <b>single persons</b> are formatted this way:
            [<b>SURNAME, Forename</b> (alt names), * place date, † place date, occupation(s)
          nationality.] Often, occupation and nationality are abbreviated. Dates are in DD.MM.YYYY
          format. Omit the asterisk and dagger as usual.<ul>
            <li>[<b>ABBIATI, Franco,</b> *Verdello (Bergame) 14.9.1898, † Bergame 22.1.1981,
              critique musical italien.]<blockquote>&lt;div type="heading">
                <br />&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>ABBIATI&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>Franco&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>, &lt;birth>&lt;placeName>Verdello
                (Bergame)&lt;/placeName> &lt;date when="1898-09-14"
                when-custom="1898">14.9.1898&lt;/date>&lt;/birth>,
                &lt;death>&lt;placeName>Bergame&lt;/placeName> &lt;date when="1981-01-22"
                when-custom="1981">22.1.1981&lt;/date>&lt;/death>, &lt;occupation>critique
                musical&lt;/occupation>
                &lt;nationality>italien&lt;/nationality>&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote>
            </li>
            <li>Birth information might be indicated by "né" but is rare (this is the only instance
              I've seen so far): [<b>ABELL, John,</b> né dans l’Aberdeenshire 1653 (et non à
              Londres), † Cambridge apr. 1916, comp., chanteur et luthiste
                écossais.]<blockquote>&lt;div type="heading">
                <br />&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>ABELL,
                &lt;forename>John&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>, &lt;birth>né dans
                &lt;placeName>l’Aberdeenshire&lt;/placeName> &lt;date when="1653"
                when-custom="1653">1653&lt;/date> (et non à Londres)&lt;/birth>,
                &lt;death>&lt;placeName>Cambridge&lt;/placeName> &lt;date when="1916-04"
                when-custom="1916">apr. 1916&lt;/date>, &lt;occupation>comp.&lt;/occupation>,
                &lt;occupation>chanteur&lt;/occupation> et &lt;occupation>luthiste&lt;/occupation>
                &lt;nationality>écossais&lt;/nationality>.</blockquote><i>Note: </i>"all."<i> is a
                nationality.</i></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li><b>Family</b> entries will not have an asterisk or dagger or "né" in the first sentence.
          Individual persons' forenames are in bold type in print, normal case, and numbered.
          Enclose each personal name in a &lt;rilmPerson> element.</li>
        <li><b>Worklists</b> are headed "Rééditions" or "Œvres"; items separated by semicolons. Put
          italics in &lt;title>, not &lt;hi>. <ul><li>Many worklists come in the middle of the body. In such case, end the &lt;div type="body">, start
              and close the &lt;div type="works">, then open another &lt;div type="body">.</li></ul></li>
        <li><b>Bibliographies</b> are headed "Bibliographie". <ul>
            <li>Individual items are separated by semicolons in the print. Parts of the bibl are
              separated by commas.</li>
            <li>Bold face type marks sections; the bold text should be used for the &lt;head>
              element of each section.</li>
            <li>Author names in print are typest in small caps, first initial-surname. </li>
            <li>Titles are in normal case, Roman (not italic!). </li>
            <li>Article titles are followed by ", <i>in</i>". Periodical titles are followed by vol,
              date.</li>
            <li>Omit the dash after head text, the semicolons between items, and the final
              period.</li>
          </ul>[ Bibliographie - F. G. R<small>ENDALL</small>, F.W. G., 1858-1945, in Galpin Soc.
          Journal I, 1948 ; S. G<small>ODMAN</small>, F.W. G., Music Maker, <i>in</i> Monthly
          Musical Record LXXXIV, mars-avril 1954; du meme, Fr.W. G., <i>in</i> Galpin Soc. Journal
          XII, 1959.]<blockquote>&lt;div
            type="ography">&lt;head>Bibliographie&lt;/head><br />&lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>F.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
            &lt;forename>&lt;abbr>G.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
            &lt;surname>Rendall&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>, &lt;title>F.W. G., 1858-1945&lt;/title>,
            in &lt;title type="periodical">Galpin Soc. Journal&lt;/title> &lt;biblScope
            unit="vol">I&lt;/biblScope>, &lt;date>1948&lt;/date>&lt;/bibl> &lt;/item>
            <br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>S.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
            &lt;surname>Godman&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>, &lt;title>F.W. G., Music Maker&lt;/title>,
            in &lt;title type="periodical">Monthly Musical Record&lt;/title> &lt;biblScope
            unit="vol">LXXXIV&lt;/biblScope>, &lt;date>mars-avril 1954&lt;/date>&lt;/bibl>
            &lt;/item> <br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>du meme&lt;/author>, &lt;title>Fr.W.
            G&lt;/title>., in &lt;title type="periodical">Galpin Soc. Journal&lt;/title>
            &lt;biblScope unit="vol">XII&lt;/biblScope>,
            &lt;date>1959&lt;/date>&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br/>&lt;/list><br/>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
        <li><b>See references</b> are in the form [<b>SURNAME</b>, voir T<small>ARGET</small>.]"</li>
        <li><b>Back matter</b> comprises tables of illustrations at the back of each volume. Set
          each as a &lt;table> with three columns.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
