<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Dizionario e bibliografia della musica (1836)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="grove-GR1">Dizionario e bibliografia della musica (1836)</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201504" title="Added, 3/2014">
      <p>This publication should be converted from rich PDF.</p>
      <p>The first two volumes comprise the Dictionary ("Dizionario"); the second two volumes (3-4)
        comprise the bibliography ("bibliografia"). They are essentially separate publications.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Dizionario</b>:<ol>
            <li><b>Front matter</b> includes only a <b>title page</b> and a <b>Prefazione</b>
              (preface) </li>
            <li>All entries are &lt;text type="topic"></li>
            <li>Entries have only &lt;div type="body">. There are no headings or lists</li>
            <li>Footnotes should be handled as described in the <a
                href="ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#footnotes">general instructions</a>.</li>

            <li>The <b>article title</b> is given in all-capital type. Start with a &lt;div
              type="body"> and &lt;p>. Use the word or words in all capitals as the &lt;title> in
              the TEI header and tag it &lt;term> within the &lt;p>.</li>
            <li><b>See references</b>
              <i>and</i>
              <b>Cross references</b> are indicated by an italic letter "V" followed by a period. <ul>
                <li>The "v" may be capital or lower case.</li>
                <li>The target term is set in small capitals.</li>
                <li>Examples:<ul>
                    <li>[A CAPRICCIO, ad arbitrio dell'esecutore. <i>V.</i>
                      <small>AD LIBITUM</small>.]</li>
                    <li>[Il sig. Mott a Londra, aggiunse recentemente a' Pianoforti un meccanismo
                      simile del sig. Walker (<i>v.</i>
                      <small>CELESTINO</small>), e ne rese il suono più forte ancora.]</li>
                  </ul></li>
                <li>Treat stand-alone See references according to the <a
                    href="ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#see-refs">general rules for see
                    references</a>. If there is text between the referring term and the target term,
                  include it in the &lt;term> element in the target article.</li>
                <li>For <a href="ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#cross-refs">Cross references within
                    articles</a>, tag only the text in small caps (not the word "articolo", for
                  example).</li>
                <li><i>If the letter "v" is not italic / slanted, the reference is to another
                    publication.</i></li>
                <li><i>There are examples of multiple referring terms pointing to a single target
                    term by way of a large brace "}". There are examples in vol. 1, on pages 13 and
                    23 (among many others).</i></li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>There are illustrations within some articles, but all <b>musical examples</b>
              (notated music) are printed together in volume 2, beginning after page 301. The are
              referred to in the articles as "Fig.1", "Fig.2", etc. Please separate these figures
              each in their own image file. and reference them in the appropriate articles.</li>
            <li>Set the articles in the <b>Aggiunte</b> section identically to others in the
              Dictionary.</li>
            <li>Set the <b>Errata</b> list as a &lt;table>.</li>
          </ol></li>

        <li><b>Bibliografia</b>
          <ol>
            <li>The front matter includes a preface (Prefazione) and a table of contents (Tavola
              della materie).</li>
            <li>Quotation marks are low and double for both opening and closing: („ text „).</li>
            <li>Please see the file  DBM-TOC.pdf. In principle, make each item in the table of
              contents into a separate file IF it is more than just a heading. Parts outlined in the
              file should be marked up in one file.</li>
            <li>Mark up prose passages as body text, but tag italic type as &lt;title> elements:<ul>
                <li>[<i>g)</i><br />ARISTIDE QUINTILIANO<br />vivea secondo Fabricìo dopo Cicerone
                  (vale a dire verso il principio dell'Era cristiana), avendolo criticato nel suo
                  secondo libro <i>De musica</i> y p. 69, per avere scritto contro la musica nella
                  sua Opera <i>De repubblica</i>...]</li>
              </ul><blockquote>&lt;div type="section" n="g)">&lt;head>ARISTIDE QUINTILIANO&lt;/head>
                &lt;p>vivea secondo Fabricìo dopo Cicerone (vale a dire verso il principio dell'Era
                cristiana), avendolo criticato nel suo secondo libro &lt;title>De musica&lt;/title>
                y p. 69, per avere scritto contro la musica nella sua Opera &lt;title>De
                repubblica&lt;/title>...&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote> Enclose passages in smaller
              type in &lt;note> tags.</li>
            <li>List entries are identifiable by either an all-capital name or italic title at the
              beginning. They may include any or all of the following: <ul>
                <li>The author name in surname-forename order, typeset with Surname in all capitals,
                  and forename(s) in small-captitals in parentheses, followed by a comma:<br />
                  [KEMPELN (<small>WOLFGANG VON</small>),]</li>
                <li>A biographical note, often containing birth and death information ("nato a" =
                  "born at"; "morto a" = "died at"), followed by a colon: <br />[I. R. consigliere
                  della cancelleria aulica a Vienna, nato a Presburgo l’anno 1729, morto a Vienna
                  nel 1804:]</li>
                <li>A title, in italic type, followed by a period:<br /> [<i>Mechanismus der
                    menschlichen Sprache, nebst der Beschreibung einer sprechenden Maschine, Mit 27
                    Kupfertafeln.</i>]</li>
                <li>Place and date of publication: [Wien, 1791.]</li>
                <li>Other bibliographic information, possibly including other titles: <br /> [Anche
                  in lingua francese col titolo: <i>Le Mécanisme de la parole y suivi de la
                    déscription d’une machine parlante, et enrichi de 27 planches</i>. Ibid.] </li>
                <li>An annotation, usually in smaller type:<br /> [<small>Nella sua traduzione
                    tedesca delle <i>Malattie nervose</i> del Tissot, 1’Autore parla a lungo della
                    caratteristica della voce cantante, e per estratto nella musicale Gazzetta reale
                    di Spira, 1788.</small>]</li>
              </ul><blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>KEMPELN&lt;/surname>
                (&lt;forename>WOLFGANG&lt;/forename> &lt;nameLink>VON&lt;/nameLink>)&lt;/persName>,
                I. R. consigliere della cancelleria aulica a Vienna, &lt;birth>nato a
                &lt;placeName>Presburgo&lt;/placeName> l’anno &lt;date when="1729"
                when-custom="1729">1729&lt;/date>&lt;/birth>, &lt;death>morto a
                &lt;placeName>Vienna&lt;/placeName> nel &lt;date when="1804"
                when-custom="1804">1804&lt;/date>&lt;/death>&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/author>:
                &lt;title>Mechanismus der menschlichen Sprache, nebst der Beschreibung einer
                sprechenden Maschine, Mit 27 Kupfertafeln&lt;/title>.
                &lt;pubPlace>Wien&lt;/pubPlace>, &lt;date>1791&lt;/date>, 8. Anche in lingua
                francese col titolo: &lt;title>Le Mécanisme de la parole y suivi de la déscription
                d’une machine parlante, et enrichi de 27 planches&lt;/title>. Ibid.&lt;/bibl>
                &lt;note>Nella sua traduzione tedesca delle &lt;hi rend="italic">Malattie
                nervose&lt;/hi> del Tissot, 1’Autore parla a lungo della caratteristica della voce
                cantante, e per estratto nella musicale Gazzetta reale di Spira,
                1788.&lt;/note>&lt;/item> </blockquote></li>
            <li>When an author name is printed in all-caps with no small caps, enclose the name in
              &lt;author> tags but omit &lt;forename> and &lt;surname> tags: [ERODOTO D'
              ALICARNASSO]; [TEONE DI SMIRNA] </li>
            <li>Entries without author begin with a title in italic type.</li>
            <li><i>Some "lists"</i> may contain only one item!</li>
          </ol></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
