<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Biographisch - Bibliographisches Quellen-Lexikon</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="eitner-bql">Biographisch - Bibliographisches <br />Quellen-Lexikon</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201503" title="Added, 3/2015">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>:<ul>
            <li>TEI for this publication should be produced from provided text PDFs and scanned
              print. The PDFs contain corrected text from OCR. The text will differ from the print
              in a few details: <ol>
                <li>German-style quotation marks in the print are changed to American-style double
                  quotes in the PDFs.</li>
                <li>Long "s" characters (ſ - hex 017F) in the print are replaced with modern
                  lower-case "s".</li>
                <li>Some bold face in the print is rendered as Roman in the PDFs.</li>
              </ol> However, column breaks and page breaks match the print throughout.</li>
            <li>Please insert &lt;pb> elements to indicate page breaks in the original.</li>
            <li>BQL was printed in ten volumes over a period of five years, and different volumes
              will have different values of &lt;date> in the &lt;imprint> element:<table>
                <tbody>
                  <tr>
                    <td>vols. 1–3</td>
                    <td>1900</td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>vols. 4–5</td>
                    <td>1901</td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>vols. 6–7</td>
                    <td>1902</td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>vols. 8–9</td>
                    <td>1903</td>
                  </tr>
                  <tr>
                    <td>vol. 10</td>
                    <td>1904</td>
                  </tr>
                </tbody>
              </table></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> includes the <b>title page</b>, <b>Subscribentenliste</b>,
            <b>Vorwort</b>, <b>Verzeichnis der angezogenen neueren Quellenwerke</b>, <b>Verzeichnis
            der Bibliotheks-Abkürzungen</b>, <b>Wortabkürzungen mit Ausschluss der allgemein
            gebräuchlichen</b>, and <b>Vorbemerkung</b>. <ul>
            <li>Set the <b>Subscribentenliste</b> as a &lt;list>. There is no systematic way to
              distinguish persons from institutions, so simply set each as an &lt;item>. The last
              word in each item before a parenthesis (if there is one) is a place name:
                <blockquote>&lt;list>&lt;item>Paulus Museum in &lt;placeName>Worms&lt;/placeName>
                (Prof. Dr. Weckerling) 1 &lt;/item><br />&lt;item>Kirchenchor St. Marien,
                &lt;placeName>Zwickau&lt;/placeName> (Reinh. Vollhardt) 1
                &lt;/item><br />&lt;item>Dr. Wilh. Bäumker, Pfarrer,
                &lt;placeName>Rurich&lt;/placeName> 1&lt;/item>&lt;/list></blockquote></li>
            <li>The <b>Verzeichnis der angezogenen neueren Quellenwerke</b> is a bibliography. Make
              this a &lt;text type="matter"> with &lt;div type="body"> for the introductory
              paragraph ("Diejenigen Titel...") and &lt;div type="ography"> for the list. <ol>
                <li>Set the first word of each item in &lt;author>&lt;surname> tags; the phrase
                  between the first period OR ending parenthesis and second period as &lt;title
                  rend="roman">; and the four-digit number in &lt;date>.
                    <blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Pougin&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>.
                    &lt;title rend="roman">Supplement zu Fetis Biographie universelle&lt;/title> 2.
                    Ausg. 2 Bde. Paris &lt;date>1878&lt;/date>. &lt;date>1880&lt;/date>.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />
                    <br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Prost&lt;/surname>
                    (B.)&lt;/persName>&lt;/author> &lt;title rend="roman">Liste des artistes
                    mentionnes dans les etats de la maison du roi et des maisons des Princes, du 13.
                    siecle ä Tan 1500&lt;/title>. In Archives historiques. Paris T. 1.
                    &lt;date>1889&lt;/date>. S. 431 ff.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />
                    <br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Prüfer&lt;/surname>
                    (A.) &lt;/persName>&lt;/author> &lt;title rend="roman">Untersuchungen über den
                    außerkirchlichen Kunstgesang in den evangelichen Schulen des 16. Jhs. Lpz. 1890
                    Fock. Mit Musikbeilagen.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item></blockquote></li>
                <li> For the entries "A. d. B.", "Biographien", "Denkmäler", "Jahrbuch", "Lpz.
                  Ztg.", "Magazin", "N. Z. f. M.", "Niederrheinische", "Publikation", "Tijdschrift",
                  and "Viertelj.", omit the &lt;author>&lt;persName>&lt;surname> and &lt;title>
                  tagging. <blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>Publikation älterer praktischer und
                    theoretischer Musikwerke vorzugsweise des 15. u. 16. Jhs. Herausgeg. von der
                    Gesellschaft f. Musikforschung. 1. Jahrg. &lt;date>1873&lt;/date> bis 27. Jahrg.
                    &lt;date>1899&lt;/date>. Lpz. Br. &amp; H.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>
                  </blockquote></li>
              </ol></li>
            <li>Set the <b>Verzeichnis der Bibliotheks-Abkürzungen</b> and the
                <b>Wortabkürzungen</b> as simple &lt;list> elements.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Three kinds of entries will be found:<ul>
            <li>See-references</li>
            <li>Person entries with article text</li>
            <li>Entries without article text, either Person or Topic</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>See references</b> in this publication should be treated as described in the <a
            href="ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#see-refs">general instruction</a> page. They are
          indicated in one of six ways in the source: <ul>
            <li>with the word "ist" (is): [<b>A. A.</b> ist Alexander <b>Agricola</b>] Note that the
              target entry will be alphabetized by the bold name, i.e. "Agricola, Alexander".</li>
            <li>with the word "gleich" (equals): [<b>A. B.</b> gleich Anton <b>Brumel</b>]</li>
            <li>With the word "siehe" (see): [<b>Cociolini</b>, siehe <b>Conciolini</b>.]</li>
            <li>With the abbreviation "s.": [<b>Colbanus</b>, Simon, s. <b>Kolbanus</b>.]</li>
            <li>With an equal sign: [<b>F. D.</b> = Fréderic <i>Desessart.</i>] Note that the target
              entry will be alphabetized by the italicized name; "Desessart, Frederic"</li>
            <li>With the word "mutmasslich" (perhaps, possibly)</li>
          </ul> Where there is more than one target given with "und" or "u.", place a &lt;keyword>
          element in each of the target articles:<br /> [<b>Fockerod,</b> siehe <b>Fokkerodt</b> u.
            <b>Vockerodt.</b>]</li>
        <li><b>Each entry</b> will have &lt;div type="body"> and one or both of &lt;div
          type="ography"> and &lt;div type="works">. There will be no &lt;div type="heading">.</li>
        <li><b>Person entries</b> begin with the personal name given in <i>surname, forename</i>
          order, typeset in Bold. The text of the article, if there is any, continues on the same
          line in Roman type following a comma or period:<br /> [<b>Holan, Wenzeslaus Karl,</b> geb.
          gegen 1645 zu Rowno in Böhmen, war Organist an der Peter-Paul- Kirche in Prag.] <br/>Start the
          first &lt;p> of the body and tag from the beginning up to the first period or semicolon as
          a &lt;rilmPerson>. <ul>
            <li>Birth and death informations may appear in the first sentence of the body and are
              indicated as follows: <ul>
                <li>Birth dates are preceded by "geboren" or "geb." ; and the place is preceded by
                  "zu" or "in".</li>
                <li>Death dates are be preceded by "gest." or by a dagger (†) or by "starb" or by
                  "st.".</li></ul>Because the original text is inconsistent in the way it identifies birth and death
              dates, please tag them as &lt;birth rend="noMarker"> and &lt;death rend="noMarker">
              and <i>do not omit any characters</i>, including dagger characters.</li>
                <li>Occupations are also often given in the first sentence. If a word in <a
                href="#occupations">this list of occupations</a> is found between the beginning of
              the entry and the first period or semicolon, please tag it
                &lt;occupation>.<blockquote>&lt;div
                type="body">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Holan&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>Wenzeslaus&lt;/forename> &lt;forename>Karl&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>,
                &lt;birth rend="noMarker">geb. gegen &lt;date when="1645"
                when-custom="1645">1645&lt;/date> zu &lt;placeName>Rowno&lt;/placeName> in
                &lt;placeName>Böhmen&lt;/placeName>&lt;/birth>, war
                &lt;occupation>Organist&lt;/occupation> an der Peter-Paul- Kirche in
                Prag.&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
            <li>When names include variant forms in in parentheses, variants before the comma should
              be assumed to be surnames and variants after the comma should be assumed to be
              forenames. Each variant surname and/or forename should be tagged in its <i>own</i>
              &lt;persName> element. Words in the parentheses not beginning with a capital letter
              should not be tagged. <br /><br />[<b>Hoioul</b> (Hoyoul, Hoyul), <b>Johann
                Ludwig,</b>] <blockquote>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Hoioul&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>
                (&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Hoyoul&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>,
                &lt;persName>&lt;surname>Hoyul&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>),
                &lt;persName>&lt;forename>Cornelis&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>,</blockquote>[<b>Heekel,
                Wolf</b> (Wolfgang),] <blockquote>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Heekel&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>Wolf&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>
                (&lt;persName>&lt;forename>Wolfgang&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>),</blockquote></li>
            <li>Titles ("Dr.", "Rev.", "Fra.", "Don", "D.", "Pat.", "Pater", "Abbé", "l'Abbé") are
              set in non-bold type between surname and forename <i>with no parentheses</i> and
              should be enclosed in &lt;roleName> elements.<br /><br /> [<b>Riddell,</b> Captain
                <b>Robert</b>] <blockquote>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Riddell&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;roleName>Captain&lt;/roleName>
                &lt;forename>Robert&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName></blockquote>
            </li>
            <li>Where only the first letter (or letters) of the forename is known, the name is given
              with the letter(s) and elipsis (three periods): [<b>Arnulfus, G . . . </b>,] In such
              cases, include the elipsis within the &lt;forename> tags:
                <blockquote>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Arnulfus&lt;/surname>, &lt;forename>G. . .
                &lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>,</blockquote></li>
            <li>Where only the surname is known, an elipsis is used in place of the forename:
                [<b>Arthon,</b> . . .]. Again, tag the elipsis as
                &lt;forename>:<blockquote>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Arthon&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>. . .&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName></blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Lists following articles:</b>
          <ul>
            <li>If there is no head at the top of the list following the body of an article, tag it
              as a &lt;div type="ography"> containing &lt;item> and &lt;bibl> elements. The
              formatting is often too irregular to determine titles, etc., reliably, so do not
              divide the &lt;bibl> elements.</li>
            <li>Some lists have heads in italic type.<ol>
                <li>If the list has an italic head containing "<i>Bibliographie</i>" or
                    "<i>Biographie</i>", mark up the list following it as a &lt;div type="ography">
                  with the title in a &lt;head> element. Many entries in this type of list begin
                  with the author's name followed by a colon (:):<br /><br />[Beyle, Henry: Vies de
                  H., de Mozart . . . Paris 1854 Lévy frères. 12º. 341 S. [Bologna.]<br /><br />Tag
                  the author's name where there is a colon, and tag the date:
                    <blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;surname>Beyle&lt;/surname>,
                    &lt;forename>Henry&lt;/forename>&lt;/author>: Vies de H., de Mozart . . . Paris
                    &lt;date>1854&lt;/date> Lévy frères. 12º. 341 S.
                    [Bologna.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item></blockquote></li>
                <li>Lists with a <i>centered</i> italic head containing "<i>Komposition</i>",
                    "<i>werke</i>", "<i>musik</i>", or "<i>instrumental</i>" should be tagged
                  &lt;div type="works">. Tag each indented entry with &lt;item> and &lt;bibl>. Where
                  such a head begins with a number, it marks a "section" within a longer "works"
                  list. (Please see the file bql-sample-3.xml)</li>
              </ol></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Entries <b>without article text</b>:<ul>
            <li>Some entries have a punctuation after the head, then a line break. The smaller-type
              "ography" begins immediately:<br /><br /> [<b>Kolbe, . . .</b><br /> die B. B. besitzt
              einen französischen<br /> Druck von „4 Fughe‟ ohne Titelbl. in<br /> fol., dessen
              Druckprivileg von König Louis<br /> am 11. Mai 1730 ausgefertigt ist.]
                <blockquote>&lt;div type="body">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson><br />
                &lt;persName>&lt;surname>Kolbe&lt;/surname>, &lt;forename>. .
                .&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;div
                type="ography"><br />&lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>die B. B. besitzt einen
                französischen Druck von <q>4 Fughe</q> ohne Titelbl. in fol., dessen Druckprivileg
                von König Louis am 11. Mai 1730 ausgefertigt
                ist.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
            <li>Entries that have <i>no comma</i> before the first line break are &lt;text
              type="topic">. Tag the text in Bold face type as &lt;seg function="topic> and
              &lt;term>. <br /><br /> [<b>Fondamento</b><br /> par l'accompagnamento. Ms. [Musikfr.
                Wien.]<blockquote>&lt;div type="body">&lt;p>&lt;seg
                type="topic">&lt;term>Fondamento&lt;/term>&lt;/seg>&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;div
                type="ography">&lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>par l'accompagnamento. Ms. [Musikfr.
                Wien.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list>&lt;/div></blockquote> [<b>Eastcheap.</b>
              <br /> Practical discourses of singing in the worship of God, preached at Eastcheap by
              several Ministers. London 1708, 8°. [Glasgow, br. Mus. <blockquote>&lt;div
                type="body">&lt;p>&lt;seg
                type="topic">&lt;term>Eastcheap&lt;/term>&lt;/seg>.&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;div
                type="ography">&lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>Practical discourses of singing in the
                worship of God, preached at Eastcheap by several Ministers. London 1708, 8°.
                [Glasgow, br. Mus.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>A handful of entries imply family relationships and are typeset with a dash at the
          beginning of the entries after the first:<br /><br /> [<b>Berkenhof, Franz Norbert,</b>
          aus Leyden, ist am 12. Nov. 1759 an der Universität zu Leyden als Musicus eingeschrieben
          (Bouwst. 3, 8). <br /> — <i>Hermann Gabriel,</i> aus Leyden, ebendort am 28. Mai 1768 als
          Musicus eingeschrieben (ib, 3, 9). <br /> — <i>Theodor Albert,</i> aus Leyden, ebendort am
          7. März 1767 u. 24. Okt. 1789 als Musicus eingezeichnet. Er war geb. um 1746, gest. um
          1814 u. Violist u. Stadt-Musikmeister zu Leyden (Bouwst. 3, 9 u. 11).]<br /><br /> Treat
          each as a separate entry and replicate the family name ("Berkenhof, Hermann Gabriel" and
          "Berkenhof, Theodor Albert") where it has been replaced with a dash. </li>

        <li><b>Verbesserungen und Nachträge</b> sections at the ends of volumes should be set as
          &lt;list>.</li>




      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
      <p><a id="occupations">Occupations</a>: Most can be made feminine by adding -in to the
        end.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Administrator</li>
        <li>Akustiker</li>
        <li>Architekt</li>
        <li>Arrangeur</li>
        <li>Arzt</li>
        <li>Autor</li>
        <li>Bandleader</li>
        <li>Bibliothekar</li>
        <li>Bratschist</li>
        <li>Buchhändler</li>
        <li>Bühnenbildner</li>
        <li>Cembalist</li>
        <li>Choreograf</li>
        <li>Chorleiter</li>
        <li>Darsteller</li>
        <li>Dichter</li>
        <li>Dirigent</li>
        <li>Dramatiker</li>
        <li>Drucker</li>
        <li>Editor</li>
        <li>Erfinder</li>
        <li>Ethnologe</li>
        <li>Fagottist</li>
        <li>Flötist</li>
        <li>Funktionär</li>
        <li>Gambist</li>
        <li>Geigenbauer</li>
        <li>Geiger</li>
        <li>Geistlicher</li>
        <li>Gelehrter</li>
        <li>Gesangslehrer</li>
        <li>Gitarrist</li>
        <li>Graveur</li>
        <li>Harfenist</li>
        <li>Herausgeber</li>
        <li>Historiker</li>
        <li>Holzblasinstrumentenbauer</li>
        <li>Hornist</li>
        <li>Humanist</li>
        <li>Impresario</li>
        <li>Instrumentalist</li>
        <li>Instrumentenbauer</li>
        <li>Jazz-Pianist</li>
        <li>Journalist</li>
        <li>Kapellmeister</li>
        <li>Kirchenmusiker</li>
        <li>Klarinettist</li>
        <li>Klavierbauer</li>
        <li>Komponist</li>
        <li>Kontrabassist</li>
        <li>Kritiker</li>
        <li>Lautenist</li>
        <li>Lehrer</li>
        <li>Librettist</li>
        <li>Literat</li>
        <li>Lyriker</li>
        <li>Maler</li>
        <li>Mathematiker</li>
        <li>Mezzosopranistin</li>
        <li>Musik- Drucker</li>
        <li>Musik -Editor</li>
        <li>Musiker</li>
        <li>Musikerfamilie</li>
        <li>Musikethnologe</li>
        <li>Musikfunkionär</li>
        <li>Musikhistoriker</li>
        <li>Musikkritiker</li>
        <li>Musiklehrer</li>
        <li>Musikproduzent</li>
        <li>Musikschriftsteller</li>
        <li>Musiktheoretiker</li>
        <li>Musikverlag</li>
        <li>Musikverlagen</li>
        <li>Musikwissenschaftler</li>
        <li>Oboist</li>
        <li>Organist</li>
        <li>Orgelbauer</li>
        <li>Pädagoge</li>
        <li>Philosoph</li>
        <li>Pianist</li>
        <li>Priester</li>
        <li>Produzent</li>
        <li>Psychologe</li>
        <li>Publizist</li>
        <li>Regisseur</li>
        <li>Rock-Gruppe</li>
        <li>Romancier</li>
        <li>Sänger</li>
        <li>Schauspieler</li>
        <li>Schauspielerin</li>
        <li>Schirmherr</li>
        <li>Schriftsteller</li>
        <li>Songwriter</li>
        <li>Tänzer</li>
        <li>Theologe</li>
        <li>Theoretiker</li>
        <li>Trompeter</li>
        <li>Troubadour</li>
        <li>Übersetzer</li>
        <li>Verleger</li>
        <li>Violoncellist</li>
        <li>Volkskundler</li>
        <li>Volksliedsammler</li>
        <li>Volkssänger</li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
