<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Garland Encyclopedia of World Music, The</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="garland">Garland Encyclopedia of World Music, The</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201504" title="Added, 4/2015; updated 4/22/2015">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General observations</b>.
        <ul><li>This publication should be converted from the provided PDF files.</li>
        <li>Each line in the table of contents of each volume should correspond with a TEI XML file.</li>
        <li>Double [“ ”] quotation marks are used for quotes, but single ones [‘ ’] are used for
              translations of non-English terms:<br />[...<i>musique Zaïroise moderne</i> ‘modern
              Zairean music’...]<br /> Use &lt;q> for double quotes, &lt;q rend="single"> for the
              latter type.</li>
            <li>Parts of this publication were produced prior to the common adoption of Unicode.
              Diacritic markings may appear as separate characters in the PDF texts ("tu¨rku¨", for
              example). These should be replaced with Unicode characters ("türkü").</li></ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> items are indicated in the table of contents before the text "Part
          1".</li>
        <li><b>Lists of topics</b> at the beginnings of articles, in bold sans-serif type, duplicate
          section headings in the article, and <i>may be omitted</i>. (See example files.)</li>
        <li><b>Sections</b> within an article are at three levels. <ul><li>Higher-level sections are
          indicated by all-capital, bold, sans-serif headings with a large outdent. </li><li>Mid-level
          sections are indicated by headings in normal-case, bold, sans-serif type aligned with the
          left margin. </li><li>Lowest-level sections are indicated by headings in normal-case, bold,
          sans-serif <i>slanted</i> type.</li></ul> Lower-level sections should be nested within higher ones
          [from vol. 1, p. 8]: <blockquote>&lt;div type="section">&lt;heading>CONCEPTS OF
            PERFORMANCE&lt;/heading> <br />&lt;p>Some generalizations can be drawn about performance
            in Africa, emphasizing the perspectives of the performers and their ideas about creating
            that performance. However, we must bear in mind that great variation exists, even about
            fundamental ideas.&lt;/p> <br /> &lt;div
            type="section">&lt;heading>Performers&lt;/heading> <br /> &lt;p>To some extent, most
            people in African communities are expected to perform music and dance at a basic
            level...&lt;/p><br /> &lt;/div><br />&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
        <li><b>Pull quotes</b> in large roman type at the tops of pages (vol. 1, p.8, p.10, for
          example) should be tagged as a &lt;div type="textBox"> containing a &lt;p>. Position them
            <i>before</i> the &lt;div> within which they appear on the page. </li>
        <li>For <b>glossaries</b> of terms that appear at the heads of pages (vol. 1, p.14, for
          example), create a &lt;list> element <i>before</i> the &lt;p> within with they appear on
          the page. Tag the bold terms or names as &lt;term> or &lt;persName>, with
          @rend="bold".</li>
        <li>References to <b>sound recording</b> tracks (A small CD icon  with "TRACK x"; see vol.
          1, p. 366, for example) can be represented by a &lt;ref> element with @target
          "trackx.mp3".</li>
        <li><b>Bibliographies</b> are printed at the end of most articles. <ul><li>The first author names are given in surname-forename order; any subsequent authors are given in
              forename-surname order: <br />[Ssalongo, Christopher Kizza, and Peter Cooke,
                ]<blockquote>&lt;author>&lt;surname>Ssalongo&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>Christopher&lt;/forename> &lt;forename>Kizza&lt;/forename>&lt;/author>,
                and &lt;author>&lt;forename>Peter&lt;/forename>
                &lt;surname>Cooke&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>,</blockquote></li>
            <li>The &lt;date> element will always follow immediately after the author or
              authors.</li>
            <li>Set quoted titles in &lt;title type="article"> and italic titles in &lt;title>
              without attribute.</li></ul></li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to the provided xml samples.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
