<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Das Gothic- und Dark Wave-Lexikon</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="BAA">Das Gothic- und Dark Wave-Lexikon</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201505" title="Added, 5/2015">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This publication should be converted from the provided PDF</li>
            <li>Articles will have a &lt;div type="heading">, a &lt;div type="body">, and one or two
              &lt;div type="ography>. </li>
            <li>Inward-facing double-angle quotation marks are used ( »text« )</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> includes the Title page, copyright page, and Foreword.<ul>
            <li>Use the full title of the foreword in the &lt;div
                type="heading">:<blockquote>&lt;div type="heading">&lt;p>VON DER UNMÖGLICHKEIT, EIN
                GOTHIC-LEXIKON ZU SCHREIBEN &lt;lb />Ein Vorwort von Peter
                Matzke&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>There are four <b>types of entry</b>: Persons, Groups, Institutions and Terms. <ul>
            <li><b>Person</b> entries have a comma in the heading: [BOA, PHILLIP]; [BOWIE,
              DAVID]</li>
            <li><b>Group</b> entries have not comma in the heading, but do have a "Discographie"
              section at the end of the entry.</li>
            <li><b>Institution</b> entries (mostly record companies) have no comma in the heading,
              and do not have a "Discography" section at the end. Most have a mailing address
              (called variously "Adresse" or "Anschrift" or "Kontakt") at the end and/or a
              "Homepage" web address.</li>
            <li><b>Term</b> entries have no discography or address or homepage at the end.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>See-references</b>
          <i>and</i>
          <b>cross references</b> are indicated by right-pointing arrows. The title of the target
          article is in italic type: [1981 von → <i>Brendan Perry</i> und →<i>Lisa Gerrard</i> in
          Melbourne gegründet.] [DEATH CULT → <i>Cult, The</i>]</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
