<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Großes Sängerlexikon, 4th ed. (</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="GSL">Großes Sängerlexikon, 4th ed. (2003)</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201503" title="Added, 3/2015">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This publication should be converted from the provided rich PDF.</li>
            <li>This publication has only "person" articles.</li>
            <li>Articles have only &lt;div type="body"> and possibly up to 2 &lt;div
              type="ography">.</li>
            <li>German-style quotation marks (double angle: « and ») are used throughout to indicate
                <i>titles</i>. OMIT the quotation marks and tag these &lt;title rend="quoted">.</li>
            <li>Italic type is used to indicate <i>personal names</i> unless used in conjunction
              with quotation marks (« and »).</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> includes the Title page, copyright page, contents, "Vorwort"
          (Foreword), "Die Autoren" (Authors), and "Abkürzungen von Schallplatten-Marken"
          (Abbreviations of Record Labels). <ul>
            <li>Set the Abkürzungen list as a &lt;table>.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Entries</b> give the personal name given in <i>surname, forename</i> order. The
          surname is set in in bold followed by a comma, with surnames in normal-case bold. Next,
          the occupation(s) is (are) given, followed by another comma. Finally birth and date
          information is given. Omit the * and † characters. Tag up to the first period or semicolon
          in a &lt;rilmPerson> element.<ul>
            <li><b>Pavloska</b>, Irene, Mezzosopran/Sopran, * 1890 in Kanada als Tochter polnischer
              Eltern, † 12. 2. 1962 Chicago.</li>
          </ul><blockquote>&lt;div type="body"><br />
            &lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Pavloska&lt;/surname>,
            &lt;forename>Irene&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>,
            &lt;occupation>Mezzosopran/Sopran&lt;/occupation>, &lt;birth>&lt;date when="1890"
            when-custom="1890">1890&lt;/date> in &lt;placeName>Kanada&lt;/placeName> als Tochter
            polnischer Eltern&lt;/birth>, &lt;death>&lt;date when="1962-12-02"
            when-custom="1962">12. 2. 1962&lt;/date>
            &lt;placeName>Chicago&lt;/placeName>&lt;/death>&lt;/rilmPerson>.<br />
            ...&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote> If a period or semicolon is encountered before a * or †
          character, it means that birth and death information is not given: <ul>
            <li><b>Payer</b>, Christian, Tenor; er war Mitglied der Kaiserlichen Hofkapelle
              Wien.</li>
          </ul><blockquote>&lt;div
            type="body">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>Payer&lt;/surname>,
            &lt;forename>Christian&lt;/forename>,
            &lt;occupation>Tenor&lt;/occupation>&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson>; er war Mitglied der
            Kaiserlichen Hofkapelle Wien. ...&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
        <li><b>Bibliographies</b>, if present are indicated by the word "<b>Lit</b>" followed by a
          colon. <ul>
            <li>Author, if given, comes first in forename-surname order, followed by a colon. [E.
              Solmière:]. </li>
            <li>Books titles are in angle quotes and are followed by (place, date) in parentheses:
              [E. Solmière: «Rose Caron» (Paris,
                1896).]<blockquote>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>E.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                &lt;surname>Solmière&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>: &lt;title rend="quoted">Rose
                Caron&lt;/title> (&lt;pubPlace>Paris&lt;/pubPlace>,
                &lt;date>1896&lt;/date>).&lt;/bibl></blockquote></li>
            <li>Article titles are not quoted, and are followed by the source in parentheses, source
              title in quotes: [R. Celletti &amp; R. Vegeto: Lina Cavalieri (in «Le grandi Voci»,
              Rom
                1964).<blockquote>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>R.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                &lt;surname>Celletti&lt;/surname>&lt;/author> &amp;
                &lt;author>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>R.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                &lt;surname>Vegeto&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>: &lt;title type="article">Lina
                Cavalieri&lt;/title> (in &lt;title rend="quoted">Le grandi Voci&lt;/title>,
                &lt;pubPlace>Rom&lt;/pubPlace> &lt;date>1964&lt;/date>).&lt;/bibl></blockquote></li>
            <li>Dissertations titles are not quoted, and have "Dissertation" in the parenthesis with
              school and date: [P. Lewy Gidwitz: Vocal Profiles of Four Mozart Sopranos
              (Dissertation, University of California, Berkeley,
                1991).]<blockquote>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>P.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
                &lt;surname>Lewy&lt;/surname> &lt;surname>Gidwitz&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>:
                &lt;title rend="roman">Vocal Profiles of Four Mozart Sopranos&lt;/title>
                (Dissertation, &lt;orgName type="uni">University of California&lt;/orgName>,
                &lt;pubPlace>Berkeley&lt;/pubPlace>,
                &lt;date>1991&lt;/date>).&lt;/bibl></blockquote></li>
            <li>NOTE: if the entry does not include a colon, the author is not identified: [Susan
              Chilcott (in «Opera», 2002)].<blockquote>&lt;bibl>&lt;title rend="roman">Susan
                Chilcott&lt;/title> (in &lt;title rend="quoted">Opera&lt;/title>,
                &lt;date>2002&lt;/date>)</blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>The beginning of a <b>discography</b>, if present, is signaled by the word
            "<b>Schallplatten</b>" followed by a colon.<ul>
            <li>Each item generally give the record label name first (publisher), followed by
              additional information in parentheses. Years are sometimes given.</li>
            <li>Titles are always in double-angle quotation marks. Again, omit the quotation
              marks.<br /><br />[Schallplatten: Philips (Andrej in «Khovantchina»), Decca («Fürst
              Igor» von Borodin; Dimitrij im «Boris Godunow», auch als Video).]<blockquote>&lt;div
                type="ography">&lt;head>Schallplatten:&lt;/head>
                <br />&lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;publisher>Philips&lt;/publisher> (Andrej
                in &lt;title rend="quoted">Khovantchina&lt;/title>),&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>
                <br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;publisher>Decca&lt;/publisher> (&lt;title
                rend="quoted">Fürst Igor&lt;/title> von Borodin; Dimitrij im &lt;title
                rend="quoted">Boris Godunow&lt;/title>, auch als
                Video)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;/list>&lt;/div>.</blockquote></li>
            <li>Some "Schallplatten" sections contain only prose, and there will be no way to parse
              individual items. Tag whatever can be confidently identified:
              <br /><br />[Schallplatten: Von ihrer technisch hervorragend geführten Koloraturstimme
              existieren Edison-Zylinder sowie Victor-Platten (1907-08), darunter als bekannteste
              Aufnahme das «Rigoletto»-Quartett mit Enrico Caruso, Louise Homer und Antonio
                Scotti.]<blockquote>&lt;div type="ography">&lt;head>Schallplatten:&lt;/head>
                <br />&lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>Von ihrer technisch hervorragend geführten
                Koloraturstimme existieren Edison-Zylinder sowie Victor-Platten
                (&lt;date>1907-08&lt;/date>), darunter als bekannteste Aufnahme das &lt;title
                rend="quoted">Rigoletto&lt;/title>-Quartett mit Enrico Caruso, Louise Homer und
                Antonio Scotti.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;/list>&lt;/div>.</blockquote></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>See references are always in the form "<b>Surname</b>, Forename, s. unter
            <i>Surname2</i>, Forename2."</li>
        <li><b>Back matter</b> is lengthy. <ul>
            <li>OPERN UND OPERETTEN UND DEREN URAUFFÜHRUNGEN: set the "OPERN" and "OPERETTA"
              sections in separate files. The items are formatted as: Title in italic type, "von",
              author, date, place, "mit", and performers separated by slashes: <br />
              <br /> [<i>Les Abencérages</i> ou <i>L’Étendard de Grenade</i> von Luigi Cherubini, 6.
              4. 1813 Grand Opéra Paris (in Anwesenheit von Kaiser Napoleon I.) mit
              Alexandrine-Caroline Branchu / Louis Nourrit / Henri-Étienne Dérivis /Jacques-Émile
              Lavigne /Joséphine Armand / Alexandre /Jean-Honoré Bertin.]
                <blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Les Abencérages ou L’Étendard de
                Grenade&lt;/title> von &lt;author>Luigi Cherubini&lt;/author>, &lt;rilmPerformance
                type="ur">&lt;date when="1813-06-04" when-custom="1813">6. 4. 1813&lt;/date> Grand
                Opéra Paris (in Anwesenheit von Kaiser Napoleon I.) mit
                &lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Alexandrine-Caroline
                Branchu&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson> / &lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Louis
                Nourrit&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson> / &lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Henri-Étienne
                Dérivis&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson> /&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Jacques-Émile
                Lavigne&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson> /&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Joséphine
                Armand&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson> /
                &lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Alexandre&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson>
                /&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>Jean-Honoré
                Bertin&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson>.&lt;/rilmPerformance>&lt;/bibl></blockquote></li>
            <li>Tag the introductory paragraphs of the BIBLIOGRAPHIE section as &lt;div
              type="body">, and the remainder as &lt;div type="ography">. Begin a new &lt;div> with
              each of the two heads: "A )Werke aus den «Biographischen Archiven» des Saur-Verlags",
              and "Weitere Quellen:".<ul>
                <li>If an item begins with an author, it is in surname, forename order followed by a
                  colon [Alcari, Cesare:]</li>
                <li>If there is no colon in the entry either (1) there is no author, or (2) there
                  are editors, after "Hrsg. v." [.... Hrsg. v. Richard Brutigam...] in
                  forename-surname order.</li>
                <li>Parentheses contain Place and Date, and sometime edition or volume number(s) as
                  [(Tomes 1-27, Bruxelles 1866-1938)] or [(2nd edition London 1991)]. Tag the place
                  and date. Place will always immediate precede the date.</li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
