<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Handwörterbuch der musikalischen Terminologie (2012)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="handworterbuch-hwt">Handwörterbuch der musikalischen Terminologie (2012)</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201505" title="Added, 5/2015">
      <ol>
        <li>This publication should be converted from provided PDF files.</li>
        <li><b>General comments:</b><ul>
            <li>Page numbering begins anew from "1" in each article.</li>
            <li>German-style low-high quotation marks are used, both double („ ‟) and single (‚ ‛)
              Replace all with &lt;q> tags; use @rend="single" for the single quotes. Keep
              apostrophes (’) as Unicode characters.</li>
            <li>Emphatic text includes text in small caps and "sperren", or loose letter
              spacing.</li>
            <li>Italic type is never used for emphasis. It is used either for <ol>
                <li>Titles, or </li>
                <li>Cross references, which are indicated by right-pointing arrows preceding the
                  italic text.</li>
              </ol></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>All entries are &lt;text type="topic">.</li>
        <li>All entries have a &lt;div type="heading">, &lt;div type="body">, and &lt;div
          type="ography">, which should all be at the same structural level. <ul>
            <li>Each &lt;div type="body"> will have several &lt;div type="section"> elements nested
              in it.</li>
            <li>Make sure that sections are properly nested: Roman numerals, then Arabic numerals,
              then letters:<blockquote>I. Highest level.<br /> (1) Second level.<br /> (a) Lowest
                level.</blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Entries begin with an introductory paragraph or two, then have a summary of the article
          that mirrors the structure of the article's sections and their numbering, but without line
          breaks. If you can identify this, tag as a &lt;div type="summary">.</li>
        <li>Bibliographies are marked by the head "Lit.:". <ul>
            <li>Items in the bibliography are usually separated by semicolons. Omit the semicolons
              after separating into separate &lt;item>&lt;bibl> elements.</li>
            <li>Author names are given in small caps.</li>
            <li>Titles, regardless of whether article, book, etc., are in Roman type. Article and
              collection articles have a comma between.</li>
            <li>If the item is a monograph, or part of a monograph, publication place and date
              follow the last comma and precede the semicolon</li>
          </ul><br /><br />[Lit.: H. H<small>UCKE</small>, L’evoluzione del concetto di „musica
          sacra“ nel quadro del rinovamento litúrgico, in: Rinovamento litúrgico e musica sacra,
          Commento alla Istruzione „Musicam Sacram“ (Bibliotheca „Ephemerides Liturgicae“, Sectio
          pastoralis IV), Rom 1967, 244-48; <small>DERS.</small>, Die Anfänge des Cäcilienvereins,
          Musik u. Altar XXII, 1970, 159-78.] <blockquote>&lt;div
            type="ography">&lt;head>Lit.:&lt;/head>
            <br />&lt;list><br/>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;forename>&lt;abbr>H.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>
            &lt;surname>Hucke&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>, &lt;title type="article">L’evoluzione del
            concetto di &lt;q>musica sacra&lt;/q> nel quadro del rinovamento litúrgico&lt;/title>,
            in: &lt;title>Rinovamento litúrgico e musica sacra, Commento alla Istruzione
            &lt;q>Musicam Sacram&lt;/q>&lt;/title> (&lt;title type="periodical">Bibliotheca
            &lt;q>Ephemerides Liturgicae&lt;/q>&lt;/title>, &lt;biblScope unit="vol">Sectio
            pastoralis IV&lt;/biblScope>), &lt;pubPlace>Rom&lt;/pubPlace> &lt;date>1967&lt;/date>,
            &lt;biblScope unit="pp">244-48&lt;/biblScope>&lt;/bibl>;&lt;/item>
              <br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author><small>DERS.</small>&lt;/author>, &lt;title
            type="article">Die Anfänge des Cäcilienvereins&lt;/title>, &lt;title
            type="periodical">Musik u. Altar&lt;/title> &lt;biblScope
            unit="vol">XXII&lt;/biblScope>, &lt;date>1970&lt;/date>, &lt;biblScope
            unit="pp">15-78&lt;/biblScope>&lt;/bibl>.&lt;/item><br/>&lt;/list><br/>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
        <li>The entry author comes after the bibliography, along with a place name and date. Put all
          in a &lt;byline> inside a &lt;div type="authors">.</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
