<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
        <title>Hollywood Songsters: Singers Who Act and Actors Who Sing</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <a>
            <div>
                <h4 id="gospel">Encyclopedia of American Gospel Music (eag)</h4>
            </div>
        </a>
        <div class="r201501" title="Added, 1/2015">
            <ol>
                <li><b>General comments</b>:<ul>
                        <li>This publication should be converted from the provided XML.</li>
                        <li>Except for the front matter, each &lt;book-part> element in the source
                            will correspond to one TEI file.</li>
                        <li>All entries are &lt;text type="person">, and have &lt;div
                            type="heading">, &lt;div type="subheading">, and usually several &lt;div
                            type="ography">.</li>
                        <li>Remove all &lt;sc> tags.</li>
                        <li>All &lt;xref ref-type="page"> elements should be converted to the TEI
                            element &lt;pb>: <blockquote>&lt;xref ref-type="page" id="page_443"
                                /><br /><br /> &lt;pb n="443"/></blockquote></li>
                        <li>Convert all &lt;italic> tags to &lt;hi rend="italic">.</li>
                        <li>Ignore all &lt;alt-title> elements and their contents.</li>
                        <li>Ignore all &lt;sec-meta> elements and their contents.</li>
                        <li>Use <a href="../tei_rilm_instructions.html#american" target="_blank"
                                >American rule</a> for single quotation marks.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li><b>Front matter</b> will include the title page, copyright page, dedication,
                        <i>Authors' Note</i>, <i>Keys to Abbreviation</i>, and
                        <i>Acknowledgments</i>. <ul>
                        <li>The title page will correspond with the source elements
                            &lt;book-title-group> and &lt;contrib-group>.</li>
                        <li>The copyright page will correspond with the source &lt;publisher>,
                            &lt;isbn>, &lt;pub-date>, &lt;permissions>, and &lt;imprint-meta>
                            elements.</li>
                        <li>The dedication page content will correspond with the &lt;notes
                            notes-type="dedication"> of the source.</li>
                        <li>The Authors' Note is tagged &lt;sec sec-type="fm-chapter"
                            id="Authors-Note"> in the source. Use &lt;title> as &lt;head> and set
                            the &lt;sig-block> as a &lt;docAuthor>.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li><b>Article</b> titles give the name in forename-surname order. <ul>
                        <li>For the &lt;div type="heading">, tag the name as &lt;rilmPerson> and
                            &lt;persName>. The part of the name after the last space can be tagged
                            &lt;surname> and the others preceding it as &lt;forename>. <i>The names
                                </i>"Cher"<i> and </i>"Sammy Davis Jr."<i> are the only
                                exceptions.</i>
                            <blockquote>&lt;div type="heading">&lt;rilmPerson
                                xml:id="r1">&lt;persName>&lt;forename>June&lt;/forename>
                                &lt;surname>Allyson&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/div>
                            </blockquote></li>
                        <li>The &lt;p> element immediately following the article title should be
                            tagged &lt;div type="subheading"> containing a &lt;rilmPerson> with an
                            @corresp attribute pointing to the xml:id of the &lt;rilmPerson> element
                            above it. Tag the birth and death dates, and omit the parentheses and
                            "b." and "d." If another name version is given, it should be set in a
                            &lt;persName> element. <blockquote> &lt;p>(b. Ella Geisman, South Bronx,
                                New York, October 7, 1917)&lt;/p></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;div
                                type="subheading"><br />&lt;rilmPerson xml:id="r2" corresp="#r1">
                                &lt;persName>&lt;forename>Ella&lt;/forename>
                                &lt;forename>Jennings&lt;/forename>
                                &lt;surname>Geisman&lt;/surname>&lt;/persName>
                                <br />&lt;birth>&lt;placeName>South Bronx, New
                                York&lt;/placeName>&lt;date when="1917-10-07"
                                when-custom="1917">October 7, 1917&lt;/date>,
                                &lt;/birth>&lt;/rilmPerson><br />&lt;/div></blockquote></li></ul></li>
<li> There may be any number of &lt;div type="<b>ography</b>"> elements. They will correspond with
                    &lt;sec> elements in the source. <ul><li>Keep source &lt;list> elements as &lt;list> but remove the attributes. </li>
                        <li>&lt;list-item> elements will become TEI &lt;item>&lt;bibl> elements. </li>
                        <li>Information can be tagged with &lt;title>, &lt;publisher> and &lt;date>
                            or &lt;idno
                                type="label">.<blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>International
                                Showtime&lt;/title> (&lt;publisher>NBC&lt;/publisher>,
                                &lt;date>1961—65&lt;/date>)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item></blockquote><blockquote>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>The
                                Bickersons Rematch&lt;/title> (&lt;publisher>Col&lt;/publisher>
                                &lt;idno type="label"G-30523&lt;/idno>) w. Frances
                                Langford&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item></blockquote></li></ul></li>


            </ol>
            <p>Please refer also to the provided xml samples.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
