<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>International Encyclopedia of Women Composers</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4 id="IEW">International Encyclopedia of Women Composers</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201506" title="Added, 6/2016">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This title should be converted from scanned print.</li>
            <li>Entries include a heading, a short biography, and a works list in sections. <i>Much
                more information</i> is given in Appendices and other Back matter, including
              Bibliography, Discographies, photographs, and alternate names.. <i>We would like to
                pull this information together into the TEI file for each main entry..</i>  Specifics are given below.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> for Vol. 1 comprises a frontispiece; title page; copyright page;
          dedication page; Foreword; Preface - 2nd Edition; Preface - 1st Edition; Acknowledgments;
          Notable facts...; Quotations; Statistics; Guide to Use; and Abbreviations.<ul>
            <li>Tag the Abbreviations list as a &lt;table> with two columns</li>
            <li>Note: regard the "Addendum" section as part of the main body of the
              encylopedia.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Entry headings</b> give the personal name in <i>surname, forename</i> order; The
          surname is set in bold, all capitals; the forename is set in bold, normal case. <ul>
            <li>Tag name forms in parentheses in separate &lt;persName> elements, but the same
                &lt;rilmPerson>.<br />[<b>HOWE, Mary Alberta Bruce (Mary Carlisle Howe) (Mrs. Walter
                Bruce)</b>]<blockquote>&lt;div
                type="heading">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson>&lt;persName>&lt;surname>HOWE&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>Mary&lt;/forename> &lt;forename>Alberta&lt;/forename>
                &lt;forename>Bruce&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName> (&lt;persName>Mary Carlisle
                Howe&lt;/persName>) (&lt;persName>Mrs. Walter
                Bruce&lt;/persName>)&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
            <li>The biographical paragraph that consitutes the &lt;div type="body"> begins one of
              two ways:<ol>
                <li>If a specific birth date is available, the paragraph begins "Nationality
                  occupation(s). b. Birthplace, birthdate." </li>
                <li>If NO specific birth date is available, it begins "Century Nationality
                  occupation(s)."</li>
              </ol>[<b>KATS-CHERNIN, Elena</b>
              <br />Australian pianist, teacher and composer. b. Tashkent, USSR, November 4,
                1957.]<blockquote>&lt;div type="heading">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson
                xml:id="r1">&lt;persName>&lt;surname>KATS-CHERNIN&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>Elena&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/p>&lt;/div><br />&lt;div
                type="body">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson xml:id="r2"
                corresp="#r1">&lt;nationality>Australian&lt;/nationality>
                &lt;occupation>pianist&lt;/occupation>, &lt;occupation>teacher&lt;/occupation> and
                &lt;occupation>composer&lt;/occupation>. &lt;birth>b. &lt;placeName>Tashkent,
                USSR&lt;/placeName>, &lt;date when="1957-11-04" when-custom="1957">November 4,
                1957&lt;/date>&lt;/birth>&lt;/rilmPerson>....&lt;/p>&lt;/div></blockquote>[<b>KATTS,
                Letty</b>
              <br />20th-century Australian composer.]<blockquote>&lt;div
                type="heading">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson
                xml:id="r1">&lt;persName>&lt;surname>KATTS&lt;/surname>,
                &lt;forename>Letty&lt;/forename>&lt;/persName>&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/p>&lt;/div>
                <br />&lt;div type="body">&lt;p>&lt;rilmPerson xml:id="r2"
                corresp="#r1">20th-century &lt;nationality>Australian&lt;/nationality>
                &lt;occupation>composer&lt;/occupation>&lt;/rilmPerson>&lt;/p>&lt;/div>.</blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Discographies</b>: Entries whose body paragraph has "DISCOGRAPHY" in the last line
          are represented in a "Recordings" list in vol. 2, beginning on p. 1069. Entries in the
          Recordings list are sorted by name and have the same headings as the main encyclopedia
          entries, but with dates added in parentheses. Recordings under each name are listed by
          work title in all caps.<ul>
            <li>Mark up the recordings entries in vol. 2 according to this pattern: <br />[TITLE
              <br />Performer(s) (voice <i>or</i> instrument) <b>LABEL IDNO</b>]. <br /><i>Note: not
                all entries contain all kinds of data.</i></li>
            <li>Insert the entries in a &lt;div type="ography"> in the main encylopedia entry. </li>
          </ul>Refer also to the example files.</li>
        <li><b>Figures</b>: Entries whose body paragraph has "PHOTOGRAPH" in the last line have a
          related figure (portrait) in the section of Vol. 2 beginning p. 817 (PDF page 217). The
          photo captions in print are the same as the headings of the main encylopedia entries.<ul>
            <li>Insert a &lt;figure> element between &lt;div> elements in the XML file that
              references the photograph. See the example files.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Worklists</b> are headed by the word "<b>Compositions</b>" in bold. Sections of the
          worklist are headed in all-caps, non-bold: "ORCHESTRA" for example. Dates OR Publisher may
          be given in parentheses at the end of the item.<ul>
            <li><b>Compositions</b>
              <br /> PIANO <br /> Polka mazur, op. 2 (Prague: R. Veil) Sen mladi, op. 7 <br /><br />
              Other small dance pieces <br /><br /> ZITHER <br /><br /> Czech songs, op. 8 (R. Veil)
              Other pieces <br /><br /> VOCAL <br /><br /> Songs (Stary) <blockquote>&lt;div
                type="works"><br />&lt;head>Compositions&lt;/head><br /> &lt;div
                type="section"><br /> &lt;head>PIANO&lt;/head> <br />
                &lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Polka mazur&lt;/title>, op. 2
                (&lt;pubPlace>Prague&lt;/pubPlace>: &lt;publisher>R.
                Veil&lt;/publisher>)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item> <br /> &lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Sen
                mladi&lt;/title>, op. 7&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br /> &lt;item>&lt;bibl>Other small
                dance pieces&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list>&lt;/div><br />&lt;div type="section">
                <br />&lt;head>ZITHER&lt;/head> <br /> &lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;title>Czech
                songs&lt;/title>, op. 8 (R. Veil)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br /> &lt;item>&lt;bibl>Other
                pieces&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list>&lt;/div> <br />&lt;div type="section">
                <br />&lt;head>VOCAL&lt;/head> <br /> &lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>Songs
                (Stary)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list><br />&lt;/div>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Bibliographies</b> are headed "Ref." in non-bold type, and consist of numerals keyed
          to the bibliography at the back of vol. 2 (beginning page 783). <ul>
            <li>Please <i>replace</i> the numbers in the entries with a &lt;bibl> element containing
              the full marked-up bibliographic item from vol. 2, pages 783- 793. </li>
            <li>The items follow this pattern: [Surname, Forename. <i>Title</i>. Pubplace:
              Publisher, date.]. Mark names followed by ", ed." as &lt;editor>. <i>Note: some
                entries lack place, publisher, or date.</i></li>
          </ul>: <br /> [Ref. 171, 234]<blockquote>&lt;div
            type="ography"><br />&lt;head>Ref.&lt;/head>
            <br />&lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;surname>Farmer&lt;/surname>,
            &lt;forename>&lt;abbr>H.G.&lt;/abbr>&lt;/forename>&lt;/author> &lt;title>A History of
            Arabian Music to the XIIIth Century&lt;/title>. &lt;pubPlace>London&lt;/pubPlace>:
            &lt;publisher>Luzac&lt;/publisher>,
            &lt;date>1973&lt;/date>.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;author>&lt;surname>Hammer-Purgstall&lt;/surname>&lt;/author>.
            &lt;title>Literaturgeschichte der Araber&lt;/title>. &lt;pubPlace>Vienna&lt;/pubPlace>:
            &lt;publisher>Staatsdruckerei&lt;/publisher>,
            &lt;date>1850&lt;/date>.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;/list><br />&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
        <li><b>See references</b> are in the form [<b>SURNAME, Forename. See SURNAME2,
          Forename2</b>]"</li>
        <li><b>Back matter</b> is very extensive, but not all of it needs to be marked up. <ul>
            <li> BIBLIOGRAPHY: <ul>
                <li>Numerical References: <i>Do not mark up; to be included with individual entry
                    files.</i></li>
                <li>Alphabetical by Author: <i>Do not mark up; sorted copy of preceding</i></li>
                <li>Alphabetical by Title: <i>Do not mark up; sorted copy of preceding.</i></li>
                <li>For Further Reading: <b>DO</b> mark up as a bibliography</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>PHOTOGRAPHS: <i>included with individual entry files</i>
            </li>
            <li>APPENDICES:. <ul>
                <li>1. <u>Information Wanted</u>: Tag as introductory &lt;p> followed by a &lt;list>
                  for each "century" given. Tag the contents of each &lt;item> as a &lt;rilmPerson>,
                  &lt;persName>, etc.</li>
                <li>2. <u>Music Key Signatures in 25 Languages</u>: Tag as two &lt;table>s with 14
                  columns each.</li>
                <li>3. <u>Comparative distribution of Composers by Century</u>: Scan and tag as
                  &lt;figure>s</li>
                <li>4. <u>Composers by Country</u>...: Make a &lt;div type="section"> for each
                  country and a &lt;list> for each century.</li>
                <li>5. <u>List of Pseudonyms</u>: Treat as an index; specifically, insert the text
                  from the "Pseudonym" column in a &lt;keywords> element in the TEI header of the
                  entry for the name in the "Composer" column.</li>
                <li>6. <u>Operas and Operettas by Women Composers</u>: <i>Do not mark up; included
                    in main entries worklists.</i></li>
                <li>7. <u>Composers Influenced by Shakespeare</u>: <i>Do not mark up.</i> Add
                  "Shakespeare" in &lt;keywords> of the TEI header of the main entry for each name
                  in bold type.</li>
                <li>8. <u>Composers by Instrument and Music Form</u>: Make a &lt;div type="section">
                  for each item in all caps, and a &lt;list> for each century.</li>
                <li>9. <u>Composers by Calling, Occupation and Profession</u>: Make a &lt;div
                  type="section"> for each item in all caps, and a &lt;list> for each century.</li>
                <li>10. <u>Composers by the Instruments they Play</u>: Make a &lt;div
                  type="section"> for each item in all caps, and a &lt;list> for each century.</li>
                <li>11. <u>International Council of Women and Affiliates</u>: Tag prose as &lt;p>,
                  remainder as a &lt;list> with an &lt;item> for each country/addess.</li>
                <li>12. <u>International Music Societies and Information Centers</u>: Tag prose as
                  &lt;p>; make a &lt;list> for each country (in all capitals), and an &lt;item> for
                  each address. </li>
                <li>13. <u>International Performing and Music Rights Societies</u>: Same as Appendix
                  12. </li>
                <li>14. <u>National Federation of Music Clubs</u>: Tag prose as &lt;p>; make a
                  &lt;list> for each State (in all capitals), and an &lt;item> for each
                  address.</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>DISCOGRAPHY: . <ul>
                <li><u>Preface</u>: Mark up as prose.</li>
                <li><u>Recordings</u>: <i>Do not mark up; to be included with main entry
                  files.</i></li>
                <li><u>Record Companies</u>: Tag as a &lt;table> with three columns.</li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></li>

      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
