<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
        <title>MGG</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h4><a id="mgg">Die
    Musik in der Geschichte und Gegenwart (mgg)</a></h4> <p>This publication is to be converted from
    XHTML (.html) files to our TEI-XML format. </p> <ol>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 04/2014">ID and filename generation. The ID of each article
      will begin with the lowercase letters "mgg" followed by an auto-generated five-digit number.
      The filename for that XML file will consist of that ID followed by the .xml file extension. </p> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014"><a id="mgg_teiHeader"></a>teiHeader:</p> <ul>
          <li>
            <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Create a &lt;change&gt; element for each
              article created with an @when attribute and @status="created".</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p class="r201402" title="Added 02/2014">The &lt;title&gt; element within
              &lt;titleStmt&gt; should be the contents of &lt;div type="heading&gt; <i>without</i>
              any alternate spellings or names. Thus, while the heading of an article in the
              Personenteil might read "<b>Gerbič</b>, <i>Gerbić</i>, <i>Gerbec</i>, Fran,
                <i>Franjo</i>", The titleStmt/title contents would just be "Gerbič, Fran".</p>
          </li>
        </ul> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 02/2014">Each &lt;text&gt; element (one per article) should have a
          @type attribute with one of the following values: "person", "family", "corporate",
          "topic". It should also have @xml:id with the article ID as value, and
          <span class="r201502" title="Changed, 02/2015">@xml:lang="de-DE-1901"</span>.</p> <p
      class="r201410" title="Added 10/2014">Articles in the Personenteil that are about neither a
      person nor a family should be &lt;text type="corporate"&gt;. These articles do not begin with
      birth information (the * character). For these articles,text in the &lt;div type="heading"&gt;
      should be an &lt;orgName&gt;, not a &lt;persName&gt;. </p> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Edited 04/2011">&lt;div&gt; elements should receive one of the following
          @type values: "heading", "contents", <s>(when within &lt;front&gt;);</s> "section",
          "one-section", "bio", "criticism", "works", "ography", or "authors" (when within
          &lt;body&gt;). In person articles in the Personenteil, one works section will always
          appear after the biographical section, and it will usually the heading "Werke". (Any list
          that appears before the second prose section should be type="works".) All other lists
          (which appear after a second prose section) will have various headings, but will all
          receive the @type value "ography". <span class="r201406" title="Edited, 06/2014">While
          there is generally only one "works" section (often divided into sub-sections), there can
          be many "ography" sections. The section between these two sets of lists does not have a
          heading.</span> It should have @type="criticism". If there are named sections within any
          of the top-level sections (bio, works, criticism, ography), they will receive an
          @type="section" attribute. All lists in the Sachteil should have the @type value
          "ography". If a Sachteil article is divided into sections, each should have a &lt;div
          type="section"&gt;. If there is only one section, it should have &lt;div
          type="one-section"&gt;. The same is true for articles in the Personenteil that are not
          about persons.</p> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Editied 05/2014" id="fam">Family entries: there are many entries for
      families which contain sub-entries for family members. The &lt;text&gt; should have
      @type=”family”. Also, in these cases, a &lt;div&gt; should appear around the each family
      member’s section. These articles begin with a list of the family members. This list should be
      contained in a &lt;p&gt;, and should appear within a div type="contents". The word “Familie”
      should appear in a &lt;head&gt; element in this div.</p> <blockquote> <p><i>Example</i></p> <p
      class="r201405" title="Added, 05/2014">&lt;div type="heading" xml:id="d1"&gt;</p> <p
      class="r201405" title="Added, 05/2014">&lt;p xml:id="p1"&gt;Spohr&lt;/p&gt;</p> <p
      class="r201405" title="Added, 05/2014">&lt;div type="contents" xml:id="d2"&gt;
      &lt;head&gt;Familie:&lt;/head&gt;&lt;p xml:id="p2"&gt;Louis (1), sein Bruder Ferdinand, seine
      erste Frau Dorette...&lt;/p&gt;&lt;/div&gt;</p> <p class="r201405" title="Added, 05/2014"
      >&lt;/div&gt;</p> </blockquote> <p title="Added 07/2014" class="r201407">Within family
      articles each &lt;div type="person"&gt; begins with forenames folowed by biographical
      information. All of this should be tagged with &lt;rilmPerson&gt;. All of the names here are
      forenames.</p>
        <p class="r201502" title="Added, 02/2015">&lt;div type="person"> sections can contain all div
          types that &lt;text type="person"> can contain. If a a works list an ography, or a
          criticism section appear before the next family member, those sections should always be
          placed <i>inside</i> the &lt;div type="person">. The following are two examples of
          structures for this type of section:</p>
        <blockquote class="r201502" title="Added, 02/2015">&lt;div type="person"><br />&lt;div type="bio">&lt;/div><br />&lt;div
          type="works">&lt;/div><br />&lt;div type="criticism">&lt;/div><br />&lt;div
          type="ography">&lt;/div><br />&lt;/div></blockquote>
      <blockquote class="r201502" title="Added, 02/2015">&lt;div type="person><br />&lt;div type="bio">&lt;/div><br />&lt;div
          type="ography>&lt;/div><br />&lt;/div></blockquote> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201405" title="Edited 05/2014" id="docAuthors">Author’s Names: Name of article authors are to be
      tagged in &lt;persName&gt; elements within a &lt;docAuthor&gt; element. Parts of the name
      should be tagged with &lt;forename&gt;, &lt;surname&gt;, &lt;nameLink&gt;, &lt;genName&gt;,
      &lt;roleName&gt;, and &lt;addName&gt;. This &lt;docAuthor&gt; element goes in a &lt;div&gt;
      with @type="authors". If there are multiple authors for an article, enclose each
      &lt;persName&gt; elements within a separate &lt;docAuthor&gt;. Be certain that the
      &lt;docAuthor&gt; for the article is contained within the &lt;div&gt; for the article, but not
      within any child &lt;div&gt;. If the authorship of an article is broken down into sections,
      the &lt;div&gt; for each section should contain a &lt;docAuthor&gt; element, in addition to
      the one for the whole article. </p> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Here is how to determine authorship for individual
          secitons: a name at the end of one section indicates authorship of all preceding sections
          that do not include an author’s name. For instance, if an article contains five sections
          and Peter Swanson wrote sections 1,2, and 3, and Jane Weiss wrote sections 4 and 5, the
          name “Peter Swanson” would appear only after section 3, and the name “Jane Weiss” would
          appear only after section 5.</p> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014"><a id="mgg_quotation_marks"></a>Quotation marks:
      MGG uses guillemets (» and «; › and ‹ ) rather than English-style quotation marks (“ and ”; ‘
      and ’). All guillemets (but not apostrophes) should be replaced with TEI elements. When a more
      meaningful element cannot be determined, these characters can always be redered with the
      &lt;q&gt; element (with @rend="single" for single guillemets). However, use &lt;quote&gt; or
      &lt;title&gt; when they can be applied with confidence. Here are some guidelines for those
      elements:</p> <ul>
      <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">&lt;title&gt; should be used in bibliographies,
        works lists, and the like for items phrases in italics--both in guillemets and without
        guillemets. Most items in these lists will have a &lt;title&gt; element. </p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">&lt;quote&gt; <span title="Added 02/2014">should
        <i>only</i></span> be applied to quotations within the text that both are italicized and
        have a reference to a source. In MGG, these references are in parentheses, but they do not
        always appear directly after the quote. &lt;quote&gt; elements will appear either (a) along
        with a &lt;ref&gt; element within a &lt;cit&gt; element, or (b) on their own with an @source
        attribute.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201410" title="Added 10/2014">Some quotations must be tagged with
        &lt;quote&gt; within &lt;cit&gt; because it can be used as a block-level element that
        contains paragraphs, lists, or tables.</p> </li>
      </ul> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Personenteil article headings: Most headings in the
          Personenteil consist of a list of names separated by commas. The preferred surname is in
          boldface, Roman type; the preferred forename is is non-bold Roman type. The alternate
          names are in italics. When there are no alternate names, that is, there are only two names
          and one comma, that name can go into one &lt;persName&gt; element. If there are any
          variants, each name should go in a separate &lt;persName&gt; element (in that case, each
          &lt;persName&gt; will contain either a surname or a forename, but not both). All variants
          before the preferred forename should be assumed to be surnames and should have @type="alt"
          attributes. All variants after the preferred forename should be assumend to be forenames
          and should also have @type="alt" attributes. </p> <p class="r201402"
      title="Added 02/2014">Some Personenteil headings also include abbreviations indicating
      nicknames, sobriequets, legal names etc. These include "gen." and "eigentl."</p> </li>
    <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Birth, death, and occupation data. This data appears at
          the start of the (prose) biographical section of each Personenteil entry. The paragraph
          (&lt;p&gt;) that contains this data should begin with a &lt;rilmPerson&gt; element. Within
          this element, elements such as &lt;birth&gt;, &lt;death&gt;, &lt;baptism&gt;, and
          &lt;burial&gt; should be inserted when appropriate. MGG uses a asterisk (*) to signify
          birth information and a dagger (†) for death information. The abbrevation for baptized is
          “get.” <del>These markers should each be placed in an &lt;abbr&gt; element.</del> The word
          for buried is “begraben”--no tagging is necessary for this word. <span class="r201406"
          title="Edited             06/2014">A date goes in the &lt;date&gt; element with two
          attributes: @when attribute for the date in <a
          href="http://rilm.info/ft/tei_rilm_doc.html#TEI.att.datable.w3c">WC3 format</a>; and an
          @when-custom attribute for a four-digit year. All dates within &lt;rilmPerson&gt; should
          have both attributes.</span> When a date is preceded by the word “um”, an additional
          attribute should be added: @precision="low". A list of occupations common in MGG can be
          found <a href="mgg-roles.html">here</a>. Occupations found on that list can be tagged
          &lt;occupation&gt;</p> <div class="r201410" title="Added 10/2014"> <p> When there is a range
      such as "1505-1514", please use the middle year in for both attributes and add
      @precision="low":</p> <blockquote> <p>&lt;birth&gt;&lt;date when="1510" when-custom="1510"
      precision="low"&gt;1505-1514&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/birth&gt; </p> </blockquote> <p>For a date such
      as "26./27. Sept. 1614" choose the earlier date and add @precision="low".</p> <p>After the
      first sentence of an article, the &lt;rilmPerson&gt; element should always include a name
      (this is likely to require input from the Editorial Department). For example:</p>
      <blockquote>Sein jüngerer Bruder &lt;rilmPerson&gt;Charles (&lt;birth&gt;&lt;date when="1511"
        when-custom="1511"&gt;1511&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/birth&gt;&lt;/rilmPerson&gt;) </blockquote><p class="r201502" title="Added, 02/2015">When a &lt;birth> or &lt;death> element is added, the "*" and "†" should always be deleted.</p> </div> </li>
    <li>
        <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014"><a id="mgg-notes"></a>Notes and pitches. Note names
          and pitch names should be marked with &lt;musNote&gt; and &lt;pitch&gt;, respectively.
          Note names in German are <i>Ces C Cis Des D Dis Es E F Fis Ges G Gis As A Ais B H</i>. In
          MGG they are always rendered in italcs. Pitch names are those note names followed by a
          subscript or superscript number. So <i>f<sup>2</sup></i> would be rendered as
          &lt;pitch&gt;f2&lt;/pitch&gt;</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p class="r201502" title="Added 02/2015">Arrows before cross-references: The arrow and the
          following space that precede cross-references should be deleted.</p>
      </li>
    <li> <h5 class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Bibliographic and works lists</h5> <ol type="i">
      <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Superscript numbers indicate edition numbers
        (except for those that follow "RISM" and a year). These can go in &lt;edition&gt;
        elements.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">The exception to this is superscripts that
        follow "RISM" and a year. These should be tagged with &lt;hi rend="sup"&gt;</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Anything is a &lt;title&gt; tag is by default
        italic. Titles that have other styling should have an @rend attribute to indicate whether
        the title was roman, quoted, or quoted-italic.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">"hrsg. von" ("edited by") indicates that the
        following person is an editor and should go in an &lt;editor&gt; element.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201410" title="Added 10/2014">If the name of an editor is rendered in
        smallcaps, please use the following tag: &lt;editor subtype="primary"&gt; </p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">When an author or editor is an organization, use
        the &lt;orgName&gt; tag within &lt;author&gt; or &lt;editor&gt;. If it is unclear, do not
        tag anything within the &lt;author&gt; or &lt;editor&gt; tag.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Cross-references: Cross references are indiated
        with an arrow in the XHTML files. Make a link to the appropriate article ID.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">If there are two titles and two dates of
        publication, there should probably be a secondary &lt;bibl&gt; within the primary
        &lt;bibl&gt; </p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201407" title="Added, 07/2014">In Roman titles that follow "in:", any time a
        number follows the title, that number should be tagged with &lt;biblScope&gt;. The big
        exception to this is four-digit years, which should be tagged as part of the title. This
        only applies to Roman titles that follow "in:". Numbers followed by periods should not be
        tagged with &lt;biblScope&gt;</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201407" title="Added, 07/2014">Do not use &lt;instrumentation&gt; for MGG.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201407" title="Added, 07/2014">Do not tag dates (or places) &#xa0;within
        titles. If a date appears within a title, leave it untagged.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201410" title="Added, 10/2014">Only tag dates within &lt;bibl&gt; when they
        are in the form dddd (where d is a digit). </p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201407" title="Added, 07/2014">For list sections with headings other than
        those in the following list, use only the tags &lt;item&gt;, &lt;bibl&gt;, and &lt;hi&gt;:
        "Werke", "literatur", "ausgaben", "schriften", "vertonungen",
        "editionen",&#xa0;"textausgaben",&#xa0; "briefausgaben".</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201407" title="Added 07/2014">Do not use the &lt;pubPlace&gt; tag in works
        lists &lt;div type="works"&gt;.</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201410" title="Added 10/2014">Unless the heading (or sub-heading) is
        "Schriften", &lt;div type="works"&gt; lists should only receive the tags &lt;title&gt;
        (without attributes), &lt;date&gt;, and (if applicable) &lt;editor&gt;. </p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201407" title="Added, 07/2014" id="discographies">In sections with the heading "diskographie":
        (1) Do not tag anything except for titles and names. Anything else that is italic should be
        &lt;hi rend="italic"&gt;; (2) In these sections, words within parentheses are not titles.
        Please tag them simply with &lt;hi rend="italic"&gt;; (3) Years within parentheses in these
        sections should simply be tagged &lt;date&gt; (not date type="comp")</p> </li>
      <li> <p class="r201407" title="Added, 07/2014">Many "works" or "ography" sections begin with
        some prose text, either in parentheses or not. Text that appears after the heading, indented
        on a new line, should be tagged with &lt;p&gt;. Text that appears after heading, either on
        the same line or on a new line but <i>not</i> indented, should be tagged in
        &lt;note&gt;.</p> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014" id="titleRoman"> &lt;title rend="roman"&gt; only in the following
            cases: <ul>
              <li>after "in:" (must include the colon) <blockquote>&lt;bibl
                  xml:id="b8"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;J.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
                  &lt;surname&gt;Hodin&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Bedrich Smetana
                  i Göteborg&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Ord och Bild&lt;/title&gt;
                  &lt;date&gt;1941&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
                  unit="pp"&gt;537-547&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote>
              </li>
              <li>after "in: " plus the name of an editor or author (see NB below)</li>
              <li>within parentheses that are roughly the same length as and _directly_ follow an
                italicized title (these are translations). <blockquote>&lt;bibl
                  xml:id="b17"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;A.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
                  &lt;surname&gt;Nordström&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Det hände
                  sig i Göteborg&lt;/title&gt; (Es geschah in Göteborg),
                  &lt;pubPlace&gt;Göteborg&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
                  &lt;date&gt;1980&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote>
              </li>
              <li>around "dass." <blockquote>&lt;bibl
                  xml:id="b49"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;A.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
                  &lt;surname&gt;Zobel&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Die
                  Kirchenbibliothek der Peterskirche zu Görlitz&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;title
                  rend="roman"&gt;dass.&lt;/title&gt;, &lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;Bd.
                  117&lt;/biblScope&gt;, &lt;date&gt;1941&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote>
              </li>
            </ul>
            <p>N.B.: when "in:" is followed by a name (with "hrsg.") and then a comma, it should be
              tagged &lt;editor&gt; (if followed by "Hrsg.") or (and this is very rare) &lt;author
              rend="roman"&gt;. That will be followed either by &lt;title rend="roman"&gt; or
              &lt;date&gt;.</p>
            <blockquote>&lt;bibl xml:id="b23"&gt;&lt;author&gt;Ders.&lt;/author&gt;,
              &lt;title&gt;Jenaer Liederhs&lt;/title&gt;., in:
              &lt;editor&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;K.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
              &lt;surname&gt;Ruh&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt; &lt;editor&gt;u.a.&lt;/editor&gt;
              (Hrsg.), &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Die dt. Literatur des MA.
              Verfasserlexikon&lt;/title&gt;, &lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;Bd. 4&lt;/biblScope&gt;,
              &lt;pubPlace&gt;Bln./N.Y.&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;edition
              rend="sup"&gt;2&lt;/edition&gt;&lt;date&gt;1983&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
              unit="col"&gt;Sp. 512-516&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote>
            <blockquote>&lt;bibl
              xml:id="b7"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;Chr.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
              &lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;G.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
              &lt;surname&gt;Körner&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Über
              Charakterdarstellung in der Musik&lt;/title&gt; (&lt;date
              type="comp"&gt;1795&lt;/date&gt;), in: &lt;author
              rend="roman"&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;W.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
              &lt;surname&gt;Seifert&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title
              rend="roman"&gt;Christian Gottfried Körner. Ein Musikästhetiker der dt.
              Klassik&lt;/title&gt;, &lt;pubPlace&gt;Rgsbg.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
              &lt;date&gt;1960&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
              unit="pp"&gt;147–158&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote>
            <blockquote>&lt;bibl
              xml:id="b21"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;P.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
              &lt;surname&gt;Boulez&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Nahsicht und
              Fernsicht&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;author rend="roman"&gt;ders.&lt;/author&gt;,
              &lt;title&gt;Werkstatt-Texte&lt;/title&gt;,
              &lt;pubPlace&gt;Bln.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;/&lt;pubPlace&gt;Ffm.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;/&lt;pubPlace&gt;Wien&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
              &lt;date&gt;1972&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
              unit="pp"&gt;58–75&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote>
          </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014">
        &lt;meeting&gt; should start with "Kgr. Ber." (or "Kgr.Ber.") but continue until next comma.
        This will often include a year and a place abbreviation, but those should not be tagged as
        such. </p> <blockquote>&lt;bibl xml:id="b18"&gt;&lt;title&gt;Kolloquium: KM. im
        Spannungsfeld zwischen Kunst und Gottesdienst&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;meeting&gt;Kgr.Ber. GfM
        Bayreuth 1981&lt;/meeting&gt;, &lt;pubPlace&gt;Kassel&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
        &lt;date&gt;1984&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
        unit="pp"&gt;233-277&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> Periods in &lt;bibl&gt; elements usually do not
        separate elements. They are usually serving as one of three things: <ul>
        <li> part of an abbreviation </li>
        <li> part of an ordinal number ("8." in German = "8th" in English). </li>
        <li> the division between a parts of a title: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Christian Gottfried
          Körner. Ein Musikästhetiker der dt. Klassik&lt;/title&gt; </li>
        </ul> This means that they the only case where they would appear at the end of a title is as
        part of an abbreviation: <blockquote>&lt;bibl
        xml:id="b8"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;A.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Schubiger&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Die Sängerschule St.
        Gallens vom 8. bis zum 12. Jh.&lt;/title&gt;,
        &lt;pubPlace&gt;Einsiedeln&lt;/pubPlace&gt;/&lt;pubPlace&gt;N.Y.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
        &lt;date&gt;1858&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> In general, restrict the use of &lt;pubPlace&gt;
        and &lt;date&gt; to places matching the one of the following two patterns: <ul>
        <li> &lt;pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt; (or &lt;pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
          unit="pp"&gt;) <blockquote>&lt;bibl
          xml:id="b6"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;J.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Noppius&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Aacher
          chronick&lt;/title&gt;, &lt;pubPlace&gt;K.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1632&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> <blockquote>&lt;bibl
          xml:id="b15"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;W.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Serauky&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Die Affekten-Metrik
          des Isaac Vossius in ihrem Einfluß auf Joh. Kuhnau und Joh. Seb. Bach&lt;/title&gt;, in:
          &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Fs. M. Schneider&lt;/title&gt;,
          &lt;pubPlace&gt;Lpz.&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1955&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
          unit="pp"&gt;105–113&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
        <li> in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt; &lt;date&gt; <blockquote>&lt;bibl
          xml:id="b30"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;W.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Blankenburg&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Überlieferung und
          Textgesch. von Martin Luthers &lt;q&gt;Encomion musices&lt;/q&gt;&lt;/title&gt;, in:
          &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Luther-Jb.&lt;/title&gt; &lt;date&gt;1972&lt;/date&gt;,
          &lt;biblScope unit="pp"&gt;80–104&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
        </ul> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> If a
        &lt;date&gt; follows directly after &lt;title rend="roman"&gt; without any punctuation in
        between, tag it as &lt;date&gt; if it is the only date in &#xa0;the &lt;bibl&gt;, as in this
        example: </p> <blockquote>&lt;bibl
        xml:id="b51"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;H.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Kretzschmar&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Allgemeines und
        Besonderes zur Affektenlehre&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;JbP&lt;/title&gt;
        &lt;date&gt;1911&lt;/date&gt;/&lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;12&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;
        </blockquote> <p> Otherwise the dates should be included in &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;. In
        the following example, there is already a date at the end of the citation, so the date is
        included in the &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;: </p> <blockquote>&lt;bibl
        xml:id="b16"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;H.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Edlén&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Musik i
        Göteborg&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Svenska musikperspektiv. Minnesskrift
        vid Kungliga Musikaliska Akademiens 200-årsjubileum 1971&lt;/title&gt;,
        &lt;pubPlace&gt;Stockholm&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1971&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;
        </blockquote> <p> A further example: </p> <blockquote>&lt;bibl
        xml:id="b18"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;A.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Fritz&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Die Entwicklung der
        Aachener Stadtmusik vom städt. Harmoniekorps zum städt. Orch. (1721-1852) und ihre Beziehung
        zur Münstermusik&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Zs. des Aachener
        Geschichtsver.&lt;/title&gt; &lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;49&lt;/biblScope&gt;,
        &lt;date&gt;1926&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
        unit="pp"&gt;121–189&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"
        >&lt;pubPlace&gt;: Abbreviations in pubPlace must all be followed by periods. (The period
        must be inside of the &lt;pubPlace&gt; element. </p> <p class="r201411"
        title="Added, 11/2014">The following are the <em>only</em> abbreviations that should appear
        in &lt;pubPlace&gt;: </p> <table class="table" title="Added, 11/2014" border="1">
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>Adm.</td>
            <td>Agb.</td>
            <td>Atpn.</td>
            <td>Bln.</td>
            <td>Brs.</td>
            <td>Dst.</td>
            <td>Ffm.</td>
            <td>Flz.</td>
            <td>Fr.i.Br.</td>
            <td>Gtg.</td>
            <td>Hbg.</td>
            <td>Hdbg.</td>
            <td>Hdh.</td>
            <td>Hlsk.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>K.</td>
            <td>Kphn.</td>
            <td>L.</td>
            <td>Lgr.</td>
            <td>Lpz.</td>
            <td>M.</td>
            <td>Mld.</td>
            <td>Mn.</td>
            <td>Mz.</td>
            <td>Nbg.</td>
            <td>Oxd.</td>
            <td>P.</td>
            <td>Rgsbg.</td>
            <td>Stg.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>Strbg.</td>
            <td>Tbg.</td>
            <td>Vdg.</td>
            <td>Wbdn.</td>
            <td>Wfbl.</td>
            <td>Wzbg.</td>
            <td>Z.</td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
        </table> <br /> <table class="table" title="Added, 11/2014" border="1">
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>Ala.</td>
            <td>Alas.</td>
            <td>Ariz.</td>
            <td>Ark.</td>
            <td>Cal.</td>
            <td>Col.</td>
            <td>Conn.</td>
            <td>D.C</td>
            <td>Del.</td>
            <td>Fla.</td>
            <td>Ga.</td>
            <td>Hi.</td>
            <td>Ia.</td>
            <td>Id.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>Il.</td>
            <td>Ind.</td>
            <td>Kalifornien</td>
            <td>Kan.</td>
            <td>Kans.</td>
            <td>Ky.</td>
            <td>La.</td>
            <td>Mass.</td>
            <td>Md.</td>
            <td>Me.</td>
            <td>Mich.</td>
            <td>Minn.</td>
            <td>Miss.</td>
            <td>Mo.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>Mont.</td>
            <td>N.C.</td>
            <td>N.D.</td>
            <td>Nebr.</td>
            <td>Nev.</td>
            <td>N.H.</td>
            <td>N.J.</td>
            <td>N.Mex.</td>
            <td>N.Y.</td>
            <td>O.</td>
            <td>Okla.</td>
            <td>Oreg.</td>
            <td>Pa.</td>
            <td>R.I.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>S.C.</td>
            <td>S.D.</td>
            <td>Tenn.</td>
            <td>Tex.</td>
            <td>Ut.</td>
            <td>Vg.</td>
            <td>Vt.</td>
            <td>Wash.</td>
            <td>Wis.</td>
            <td>W.Vg.</td>
            <td>Wy.</td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
        </table> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> There
        are two cases where &lt;pubPlace&gt; contains multiple items separated by a slash: </p> <ol
        type="a">
        <li>A U.S. city followed by the state name. The abbreviation or name for the state will
          always come from the following list and the city and state will both go in the same
          &lt;pubPlace&gt; element <br /> <br /> <table class="table" title="Added, 11/2014"
          border="1">
          <tbody>
            <tr>
              <td>Ala.</td>
              <td>Alas.</td>
              <td>Ariz.</td>
              <td>Ark.</td>
              <td>Cal.</td>
              <td>Col.</td>
              <td>Conn.</td>
              <td>D.C</td>
              <td>Del.</td>
              <td>Fla.</td>
              <td>Ga.</td>
              <td>Hi.</td>
              <td>Ia.</td>
              <td>Id.</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Il.</td>
              <td>Ind.</td>
              <td>Kalifornien</td>
              <td>Kan.</td>
              <td>Kans.</td>
              <td>Ky.</td>
              <td>La.</td>
              <td>Mass.</td>
              <td>Md.</td>
              <td>Me.</td>
              <td>Mich.</td>
              <td>Minn.</td>
              <td>Miss.</td>
              <td>Mo.</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>Mont.</td>
              <td>N.C.</td>
              <td>N.D.</td>
              <td>Nebr.</td>
              <td>Nev.</td>
              <td>N.H.</td>
              <td>N.J.</td>
              <td>N.Mex.</td>
              <td>N.Y.</td>
              <td>O.</td>
              <td>Okla.</td>
              <td>Oreg.</td>
              <td>Pa.</td>
              <td>R.I.</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
              <td>S.C.</td>
              <td>S.D.</td>
              <td>Tenn.</td>
              <td>Tex.</td>
              <td>Ut.</td>
              <td>Vg.</td>
              <td>Vt.</td>
              <td>Wash.</td>
              <td>Wis.</td>
              <td>W.Vg.</td>
              <td>Wy.</td>
            </tr>
          </tbody>
          </table> <blockquote>&lt;bibl
          xml:id="b164"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;R.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Erickson&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;The Structure of
          Music: a Listener’s Guide. A Study in Terms of Melody and Counterpoint&lt;/title&gt;,
          &lt;pubPlace&gt;Westport/Conn.&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1977&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;
          </blockquote> </li>
        <li>In all other cases, items on either side of the slash should be tagged individually:
          <blockquote>&lt;bibl
          xml:id="b357"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;W.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Gerstenberg&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Generalbaßlehre
          und Kompositionstechnik in Niedts Musikalischer Handleitung&lt;/title&gt;, in:
          &lt;meeting&gt;Kgr.Ber. Bamberg 1953&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/meeting&gt;,
          &lt;pubPlace&gt;Kassel&lt;/pubPlace&gt;/&lt;pubPlace&gt;Basel&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1954&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
          unit="pp"&gt;152-155&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> <blockquote>&lt;bibl
          xml:id="b1"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;W.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Senn&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Aus dem Kulturleben einer
          süddt. Kleinstadt. Musik, Schule und Theater der Stadt Hall in Tirol in der Zeit vom 15.
          bis 19. Jh.&lt;/title&gt;,
          &lt;pubPlace&gt;Innsbruck&lt;/pubPlace&gt;/&lt;pubPlace&gt;Wien&lt;/pubPlace&gt;/&lt;pubPlace&gt;Mn.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1938&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
        </ol> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"><a id="fs"/>The
        abbreviation "Fs.", "Gs." (and the word "Gedenkschrift") &#xa0;are never abbreviations for a
        name, they are part of a &lt;title rend="roman&gt;. Note that there is usually a name that
        follows it, but the whole thing should either be tagged &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Fs. H.
        Besseler&lt;/title&gt; (or &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Capella antiqua München. Fs. zum
        25jährigen Bestehen&lt;/title&gt; ), or left untagged. </p> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014">A new
        instruction: any editor's name that appears in small-caps should be tagged &lt;editor
        subtype="primary"&gt;. </p> <blockquote>&lt;bibl xml:id="b113"&gt;&lt;editor
        subtype="primary"&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;F.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Nicolodi&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt; (Hrsg.), &lt;title&gt;L.
        Dallapiccola, Parole e musica&lt;/title&gt;, &lt;pubPlace&gt;ebd.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
        &lt;date&gt;1980&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"><a id="parensplusequals"></a> Another change: when you have "(=", I previously had you
            creating a new &lt;bibl&gt; as a child of the other &lt;bibl&gt;, and using &lt;title
            rend="roman"> within that. Instead, please <span class="r201502"
            title="Changed, 02/2015">subsitute &lt;series> for &lt;bibl> (this means that &lt;title
            rend="roman"> should still be tagged, and any &lt;biblScope> or &lt;date> tag within the
            parentheses should be a child of &lt;series></span>: </p> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014">Old
        method:</p> <blockquote>&lt;bibl
        xml:id="b24"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;P.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;M.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Ranum&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Y atil une rhétorique des
        airs de danse française&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Die Sprache der Zeichen
        und Bilder. Rhetorik und nonverbale Kommunikation in der frühen Neuzeit&lt;/title&gt;, hrsg.
        von &lt;editor&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;V.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Kapp&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;, &lt;pubPlace&gt;Marburg&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
        &lt;date&gt;1990&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope unit="pp"&gt;238–254&lt;/biblScope&gt; (=
        &lt;bibl xml:id="b25"&gt;&lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Ars Rhetorica&lt;/title&gt; &lt;biblScope
        unit="vol"&gt;1&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;)&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> <p
        class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014">New method:</p> <blockquote> &lt;bibl
            xml:id="b24"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;P.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
            &lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;M.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
            &lt;surname&gt;Ranum&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Y atil une rhétorique
            des airs de danse française&lt;/title&gt;, in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Die Sprache der
            Zeichen und Bilder. Rhetorik und nonverbale Kommunikation in der frühen
            Neuzeit&lt;/title&gt;, hrsg. von
            &lt;editor&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;V.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
            &lt;surname&gt;Kapp&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;,
            &lt;pubPlace&gt;Marburg&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1990&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope
            unit="pp"&gt;238–254&lt;/biblScope&gt; (= <span class="r201502" title="Changed, 02/2015">&lt;series&gt;&lt;title
            subtype="secondary">Ars Rhetorica&lt;/title> &lt;biblScope
            unit="vol"&gt;1&lt;/biblScope&gt;&lt;/series&gt;</span>)&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> </li>
      <li class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> In
        general, things that don't conform to any of these patterns should not be tagged. In the
        following example, the words "Vorwort zu" do not fit into any of the patterns, so they
        should not be tagged. </p> <blockquote>&lt;author&gt;M. Seiffert&lt;/author&gt;, Vorwort zu
        &lt;title&gt;J. Ph. Krieger (1649-1725). 21 ausgewählte Kirchenkompos.&lt;/title&gt;,
        &lt;pubPlace&gt;ebd.&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1916&lt;/date&gt; (=
        &lt;series&gt;DDT&lt;series&gt; &lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;53/54&lt;/biblScope&gt;)
        </blockquote> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> Also, if you are at all uncertain,
        just leave tagging out. The following is thus acceptable: </p> <blockquote> &lt;bibl
        xml:id="b18"&gt;&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;K.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
        &lt;surname&gt;Bradley&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;Gum Leaf Music in
        Australia&lt;/title&gt;, Referat beim Kongreß der ICTM, Canberra, 5.-11. Jan.
        1995&lt;/bibl&gt; </blockquote> <p class="r201411" title="Added, 11/2014"> The only
        essential tags are those that relate to rendering (italics, superscript, subscript,
        smallcaps) </p> </li>
      <li>  <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">When there are titles in the form&#xa0;Die
        Rose&#xa0;(»<i>Es lockt schöne Wärme</i>«), the second "title" is not really a title: please
        mark it up as follows: &lt;title&gt;Die Rose&lt;/title&gt; (&lt;incipit&gt;Es lockt schöne
        Wärme&lt;/incipit&gt;</p>  </li>
      <li> <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">In works lists, when "in:" is followed by
        "RISM" or "an abbreviation that includes a dash, such as "US-NYp" or "E-Barcelona", do not
        tag these parts.</p>  </li>
      <li>  <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">"Ders." is the equivalent of the English
        "ibid." and can be replaced by the name of the previous author in the list.</p>  </li>
      <li> <del> <p class="r201407" title="Added, 07/2014">&lt;incipit&gt; should only be used in
        works lists &lt;div type="works"&gt;, and never within a &lt;title&gt; element</p> </del> </li>
      <li> <del> <p class="r201406" title="Edited 07/2014">A date in parentheses should be tagged
        with &lt;date type="comp"&gt; (Do not use @type with &lt;date&gt; for MGG)</p> </del> </li>
      
      
      
      <li> <del> <p class="r201401" title="Added 01/2014">Opus numbers: any number directly after
        the abbreviation "op." should, along with the abbreviation, go in an &lt;opus&gt;
        element.</p> </del> </li>
      <li> <del> <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">The following should be tagged with
        &lt;musKey&gt;</p></del> </li>
      </ol> <del> <table class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>As-Dur</td>
          <td>as-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>A-Dur</td>
          <td>a-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Ais-Dur</td>
          <td>ais-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>B-Dur</td>
          <td>b-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>H-Dur</td>
          <td>h-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Ces-Dur</td>
          <td>ces-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>C-Dur</td>
          <td>c-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Cis-Dur</td>
          <td>cis-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Des-Dur</td>
          <td>des-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>D-Dur</td>
          <td>d-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Dis-Dur</td>
          <td>dis-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Es-Dur</td>
          <td>es-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>E-Dur</td>
          <td>e-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>F-Dur</td>
          <td>f-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Fis-Dur</td>
          <td>fis-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Ges-Dur</td>
          <td>ges-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>G-Dur</td>
          <td>ges-Moll</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Gis-Dur</td>
          <td>gis-Moll</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
      </table> </del> <p>[There are other ways keys are rendered, but they are too easily confused
      with other abbreviations, so we'll leave them untagged.]</p> <ul>
      <li class="r201406" title="Added, 06/2014"> <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">Some
        works lists are in the form of tables. Here is a guide to the columns that appear in those
        tables:</p> <p>Opus: &lt;opus&gt;</p> <p>Title: &lt;title&gt;</p> <p>Werk: &lt;title&gt;</p>
        <p>Textdichter: &lt;author role="librettist"&gt;</p> <p>Komponiert: &lt;date
        type="comp"&gt;</p> <p>Entstehung: &lt;date type="comp"&gt;</p> <p>Enstehungsjahr: &lt;date
        type="comp"&gt;</p> <p>Enstehungszeit: &lt;date type="comp"&gt;</p> <p>Daten: (for Ives)
        &lt;date type="comp"&gt;</p> <p>Erstdruck: &lt;pubPlace&gt;&lt;date&gt;</p>
        <p>Erscheingungsjahr: &lt;date&gt;</p> <p>Textanfang: &lt;incipit&gt;</p> <p>Besetzung: look
        for "für": "für &lt;instrumentation&gt;"</p> <p>Komponist: &lt;author&gt;</p> <p>Widmung:
        &lt;dedication&gt;</p> <p>Mensur: &lt;timeSig&gt;</p> <p>Gattung: &lt;genre&gt;</p> <p>Akte
        &lt;biblScope unit="acts"&gt;</p> <p>Uraufführung: &lt;rilmPerformance type="ur"&gt;</p>
        <p>UA: &lt;rilmPerformance type="ur"&gt;</p> <p>Erstaufführung: &lt;rilmPerformance
        type="first"&gt;</p> <p>EA: &lt;rilmPerformance type="first"&gt;</p> </li>
      <li> <a id="mgg-bibl-keywords"></a> <p class="r201406" title="Added 06/2014">Keywords. Here is
        a chart of keywords and abbreviations for the "ography" sections, along with the tags that
        they indicate.</p> </li>
      </ul> </li>
    </ol> <table class="table" border="1">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th title="Field #1" scope="col">Keyword/Abbreviation</th>
        <th title="Field #2" scope="col">tag</th>
        <th title="Field #3" scope="col">example</th>
        <th title="Field #4" scope="col">example</th>
        <th title="Field #5" scope="col">example</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>Art.</td>
        <td>&lt;title&gt;</td>
        <td>Art. &lt;title&gt;Musikalität&lt;/title&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Aufl.</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;2. Aufl.&lt;/edition</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;2. korr. Aufl.&lt;/edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;3., überarbeitete Aufl.&lt;/edition&gt; </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Ausg. </td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;2. Ausg.&lt;/edition&gt; </td>
        <td>Ausg. &lt;pubPlace&gt;Rostock&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1981&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Bd.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”vol”&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”vol”&gt;Bd.?5&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Bde.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”vol”&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”vol”&gt;2 Bde.&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Bearb. von </td>
        <td>&lt;editor&gt;</td>
        <td>Bearb. von &lt;editor&gt;&lt;forename&gt;Eike&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;nameLink&gt;von&lt;/nameLink&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Savigny&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>ca.</td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;ca. 1935&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>dass.</td>
        <td>&lt;title rend="roman"&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;dass.&lt;/title&gt;, &lt;biblScope
          unit="pp"&gt;233–256&lt;/biblScope&gt; </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Ders.</td>
        <td>&lt;author&gt;</td>
        <td>engl. in &lt;author&gt;Ders.&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Handel, Haydn,
          and the Viennese Classical Style&lt;/title&gt;,</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>dies.</td>
        <td>&lt;author&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;author&gt;dies.&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Memories and
          Commentaries&lt;/title&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Dies.</td>
        <td>&lt;author&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;author&gt;Dies.&lt;/author&gt;, &lt;title&gt;The Petipa Family in Europe and
          America&lt;/title&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Diss.</td>
        <td>&lt;orgName type="uni"&gt;</td>
        <td>Diss. &lt;orgName type="uni"&gt;Bln.&lt;/orgName&gt; &lt;date&gt;1939&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Diss. mschr.</td>
        <td>&lt;orgName type="uni"&gt;</td>
        <td>Diss. mschr. &lt;orgName type="uni"&gt;Michigan&lt;/orgName&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Dr.i.Vorb. </td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;Dr.i.Vorb.&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><span title="Added, 05/2015" class="r201505">ed. von</span></td>
          <td><span title="Added, 05/2015" class="r201505">&lt;editor></span></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
        </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>ebd.</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;ebd.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><span class="r201505" title="Added, 05/2015">erw. von</span></td>
          <td><span class="r201505" title="Added, 05/2015">&lt;editor role="expander"></span></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
        </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Fs. </td>
        <td>&lt;title&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Fs. Max Schneider&lt;/title&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Gedenkschrift</td>
        <td>&lt;title&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Gattungen der Musik, Gedenkschrift L.
          Schrade&lt;/title&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>gen.</td>
        <td>&lt;addName&gt;</td>
        <td>gen. &lt;addName&gt;Eisenwerth&lt;/addName&gt;</td>
        <td> gen. &lt;addName&gt;Baccicia&lt;/addName&gt;,
          &lt;addName&gt;Bachiche&lt;/addName&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><span title="Added, 05/2015" class="r201505">ges. von</span></td>
          <td><span title="Added, 05/2015" class="r201505">&lt;editor role="compiler"></span></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
        </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Gs.</td>
        <td>&lt;title&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Gs. W. Vetter&lt;/title&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>H. </td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”issue”&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”issue”&gt;H. 4&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>HabSchr.</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;</td>
        <td>HabSchr. &lt;pubPlace&gt;Fr.i.Br.&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1955&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Hrsg.</td>
        <td>&lt;editor&gt;</td>
        <td>in:
          &lt;editor&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;E.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;?&lt;surname&gt;Etkind&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;
          &lt;editor&gt;u.?a.&lt;/editor&gt; (Hrsg.)</td>
        <td>Hrsg. &lt;editor&gt;&lt;orgName&gt;Université de
          Paris-Sorbonne&lt;/orgName&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>in Vorb. </td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;in Vorb.&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>in:</td>
        <td>&lt;title&gt;</td>
        <td>in:&lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Jb. Tanzforschung&lt;/title&gt; &lt;biblScope
          unit="vol"&gt;2&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Jg. </td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”vol”&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;1. und 2. Jg.&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;Jg. 1ff.&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;Jg. 28&lt;/biblScope&gt;/&lt;biblScope
          unit="issue"&gt;2&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Kgr.Ber. (or Kgr. Ber.)</td>
        <td>&lt;meeting&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;meeting&gt;Kgr.Ber. IMS 11&lt;/meeting&gt;,
          &lt;pubPlace&gt;Kopenhagen&lt;/pubPlace &lt;date&gt;1972&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;IMS Study Group &lt;q&gt;Cantus
          Planus&lt;/q&gt;&lt;/title&gt;,&lt;meeting&gt;Kgr.Ber. Budapest
          &lt;date&gt;1990&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/meeting&gt;, &lt;biblScope
          unit="pp"&gt;79-91&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;meeting&gt;Kgr.Ber. GfM, Lpz. &lt;date&gt;1966&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/meeting&gt;,
          &lt;pubPlace&gt;Kassel&lt;/pubPlace&gt;/&lt;pubPlace&gt;Lpz.&lt;pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1970&lt;/date&gt;, &lt;biblScope unit="pp"&gt;175-181&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Lfg.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”vol”&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;23. Lfg.&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;Lfg. 1 (Advent und Weihnachten)&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="vol"&gt;9. und 10. Lfg.&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>NA</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;bibl&gt;&lt;edition&gt;NA&lt;/edition&gt; &lt;pubPlace&gt;Kassel&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1748&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Nachdr.</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;bibl&gt;&lt;edition&gt;Nachdr.&lt;/edition&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1972&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Neudr.</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;bibl&gt;&lt;edition&gt;Neudr.&lt;/edition&gt; &lt;pubPlace&gt;Adm.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1966&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Nr.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit=”issue”&gt;</td>
        <td>in: &lt;title rend="roman"&gt;Tanzdrama&lt;/title&gt; &lt;/biblScope unit="issue"&gt;Nr.
          41&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o.J.</td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;date&gt;o.J.&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o.O.</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;o.O.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>o.O.u.J.</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;&lt;date&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;o.O.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;&lt;date&gt;u.J.&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>R.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="series"&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="series"&gt;R. 1&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Red. (or red. von)</td>
        <td>&lt;editor&gt;</td>
        <td>Red. &lt;editor&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;S.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Hammer&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Repr.</td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;L.&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;date&gt;1704&lt;/date&gt;,
          &lt;bibl&gt;&lt;edition rend="sup"&gt;4&lt;/edition&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1730&lt;/date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;,
          &lt;bibl&gt;&lt;edition&gt;Repr.&lt;/edition&gt; &lt;pubPlace&gt;N.?Y.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1952&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>rev. Ausg. </td>
        <td>&lt;edition&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;bibl&gt;&lt;edtion&gt;rev. Ausg.&lt;/edition&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1990&lt;date&gt;&lt;/bibl&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><span class="r201505" title="Added, 05/2015">rev. von</span></td>
          <td><span class="r201505" title="Added, 05/2015">&lt;editor role="reviser"></span></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
        </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>s.l.</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;s.l.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>s.n.</td>
        <td>&lt;author&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;author&gt;s.n.&lt;/author&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Sp.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="col"&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="col"&gt;Sp. 1382–1385&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Tl.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="part"&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="part"&gt;1. Tl.&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Tle.</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="part"&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;biblScope unit="part"&gt;4 Tle.&lt;/biblScope&gt;</td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
        <td> <br /> </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>u.a.</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;, &lt;author&gt;, &lt;editor&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;pubPlace&gt;Kassel&lt;/pubPlace&gt; &lt;pubPlace&gt;u.a.&lt;/pubPlace&gt;
          &lt;date&gt;1966&lt;/date&gt;</td>
        <td>&lt;author&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;S.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;?&lt;surname&gt;Ferreti&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/author
          &lt;author&gt;u.a.&lt;/author&gt;</td>
        <td>hrsg. von &lt;editor&gt;&lt;forename&gt;&lt;abbr&gt;H.&lt;/abbr&gt;&lt;/forename&gt;
          &lt;surname&gt;Danuser&lt;/surname&gt;&lt;/editor&gt;
          &lt;editor&gt;u.a.&lt;/editor&gt;</td>
      </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><span class="r201505" title="Added, 05/2015">übs. von</span></td>
          <td><span title="Added, 05/2015" class="r201505">&lt;editor role="translator"></span></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
          <td></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
    </table>
    </body>
</html>