<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
        <title>Riemann 11</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="r201505" title="Added 12/2014, rev'd 5/2015"><a id="riemann11"></a>
            <h4>Hugo Riemanns Musik Lexikon - Elfte Auflage (1929) (rmn)</h4><p>(revised 2015/5/6)</p>
            <ol>
                <li>There are two types of articles: &lt;text type="person"&gt; and &lt;text
                    type="topic"&gt;. Both types begin with a word in boldface followed by a comma.
                    Articles about persons can be distinguished by: <ol>
                        <li>the presence in the first sentence of birth and/or death information, signalled by "*" and/or "†"; OR</li>
                        <li>the presence in the first sentence of an occupation name from <a href="eitner-bql.xhtml#occupations">this list</a></li>
                    </ol>
                </li>
                <li>For articles about a person, tag the entire first sentence of the article with
                    &lt;rilmPerson&gt;. Within that, the name in bold, together with comma that
                    follows it and the name that follows the comma, should be tagged
                    &lt;persName&gt; (and &lt;surname&gt; and &lt;forename&gt; within that). If "*"
                    or "†" appear, replace them, together with the following items that follow with
                    &lt;birth&gt; or &lt;death&gt;: date, and a place preceded by either the word
                    "zu" or the word "in", and add @when and @when-custom attributes to those dates.
                        <blockquote>* 5. Aug. 1623 zu Arezzo, † 14. Okt. 1669 in
                        Florenz;</blockquote>
                    <blockquote>&lt;birth&gt;&lt;date when="1623-08-05" when-custom="1623"&gt;5.
                        Aug. 1623&lt;/date&gt; zu &lt;place&gt;Arezzo&lt;/place&gt;&lt;/birth&gt;,
                        &lt;death&gt;&lt;date when="1669-10-14" when-custom="1669"&gt;14. Okt.
                        1669&lt;/date&gt; in &lt;place&gt;Florenz&lt;/place&gt;&lt;/death&gt;;
                    </blockquote> The place will always be what appears between "zu" or "in" and the
                    next comma, semi-colon, or period.<blockquote>
                        <p>&lt;/date&gt; zu
                            &lt;placeName&gt;München&lt;/placeName&gt;&lt;/rilmPerson&gt;,</p>
                    </blockquote>
                </li>
                <li>Most articles about persons include a worklist. These are indicated in the text
                    by "~werke:" There may be a prefix ("Orchesterwerke:", "Chorwerke:",
                    "Instrumentalwerke:") but never a suffix. <ul>
                        <li>Set as a &lt;div type="works">. Tag the word ending in "werke:" as a
                            &lt;head></li>
                        <li>Each &lt;item> is delimited by a semicolon. Tag as item/bibl, and omit
                            the semicolons:<br /><br /> Werke: Lieder op. <i>1</i>, <i>2a</i>,
                                <i>5</i> (Rilkelieder), <i>8</i>; Klavierstücke op. <i>2b</i>,
                                <i>4</i>, <i>6</i>, <i>7</i>; Stück F <i>moll</i> für Klavier und
                            Violoncell; weitere Klavierstücke, darunter Passacaglia <i>As moll
                            </i>(1913); drei 6st. gemischte Chöre (1912). <blockquote>&lt;div
                                type="works">&lt;head>Werke:&lt;/head>
                                &lt;list><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>Lieder op. &lt;hi rend="italic">1,
                                2a, 5&lt;/hi> (Rilkelieder), &lt;hi
                                rend="italic">8&lt;/hi>&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>Klavierstücke
                                op. &lt;hi rend="italic">2b, 4, 6,
                                7&lt;/hi>&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>Stück F &lt;hi
                                rend="italic">moll&lt;/hi> für Klavier und
                                Violoncell&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>weitere
                                Klavierstücke, darunter Passacaglia &lt;hi rend="italic">As
                                moll&lt;/hi> (1913)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item><br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>drei
                                6st. gemischte Chöre
                                (1912)&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list>&lt;/div></blockquote></li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>Words that follow the keyword "spr." within parentheses are pronunciations and
                    use special characters outside the usual German alphabet. I'll give the
                    combining variants of the symbols here. <ul>
                        <li>a macron (U+0304)</li>
                        <li>a breve (U+0306)</li>
                        <li>an apostrophe (U+02BC)</li>
                        <li>an acute accent (U+0301)</li>
                        <li>a diaeresis and an acute accent together</li>
                        <li>a diaeresis and a macron together</li>
                        <li>a diaeresis and a breve together</li>
                        <li>an inverted breve over two or more letters (see #6 below)</li>
                        <li>a light diagonal strikethrough through one or more letters (see #6
                            below)</li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>For the inverted breve in pronunciations, there are two methods for representing
                    this character. First, for six combinations that will be declared in the header,
                    use a &lt;g&gt; tag in the following way (from page 2102): <blockquote>Maillard
                        (spr. m&lt;g ref="#aij-tie"&gt;aij&lt;/g&gt;ăr)</blockquote> For other
                    combinations, use &lt;hi rend="tie"&gt;: <blockquote></blockquote>
                </li>
                <li>Create one XML file for all the advertisements together (everything after page
                    2105). It should have the title "[Anzeigen]" and the only the following code
                    after the end of &lt;teiHeader&gt;:<blockquote>
                        <p>&lt;text type="matter"
                            xml:id="rmnSAMPLE2"&gt;<br />&lt;body&gt;<br />&lt;div
                            type="body"/&gt;<br />&lt;/body&gt;<br />&lt;/text&gt;</p>
                    </blockquote>This will serve as a placeholder for the advertisements.</li>
            </ol>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
