<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html []>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Steirisches Musiklexikon</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div>
        <h4>Steirisches Musiklexikon</h4>
      </div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201507" title="Added, 7/2015">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General comments</b>: <ul>
            <li>This publication will be converted from scanned print. </li>
            <li>Double-angle quotation marks are used in the print (»word«).</li>
            <li>There are entries on Persons, and entries on Geographic entities such as cities and
              towns. The geographical entries have no body text, but only bibliographies. (more
              below)</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front matter</b> includes the Title page, copyright page, <i>Statt eines
            Geleitwortes</i>, <i>Einleitung</i> (intro), <i>Abgekürzt zitierte Literatur</i>
          (bibliographic abbreviations) and <i>Abkürzungen</i>.<ul>
            <li>Tag the bibliographic abbreviations as a &lt;list>; put the abbreviation in an
              &lt;abbr> element. Note that names are in forename-surname order; Titles are in Roman
              type; publication place and date are given with no comma between.
                <blockquote>&lt;list>&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;abbr>MGG/2&lt;/abbr> &lt;title>Die Musik
                in Geschichte und Gegenwart&lt;/title>, &lt;edition>2., neubearbeitete
                Auflage&lt;/edition>, hg. von &lt;editor>Ludwig Finscher&lt;/editor>, Sachteil, 10
                Bande, &lt;pubPlace>Kassel&lt;/pubPlace> u. a. &lt;date>1994-1999&lt;/date>;
                Personenteil, 17 Bande, &lt;pubPlace>Kassel&lt;/pubPlace> u. a.
                &lt;date>1999-2007&lt;/date> (&lt;note>ohne Nachtragsband, der noch nicht erfasst
                werden konnte&lt;/note>).&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>
                <br />&lt;item>&lt;bibl>&lt;abbr>NGROVE 2001&lt;/abbr> &lt;title>The New Grove
                Dictionary of Music and Musicians&lt;/title>, &lt;edition>2nd Edition&lt;/edition>,
                29 Bande, ed. by &lt;editor>Stanley Sadie&lt;/editor>,
                &lt;placeName>London&lt;/placeName>-&lt;placeName>New York&lt;/placeName>
                &lt;date>2001&lt;/date>. - &lt;note>Altere Auflagen werden jeweils mit dem
                Erscheinungsjahr vermerkt&lt;/note>.&lt;/bibl>&lt;/item>&lt;/list></blockquote></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Person</b> entries. <ul>
            <li>Heading gives personal name given in <b>surname forename</b> order, in all bold,
                <i>with no comma!</i> Assume that the text before the first space is the
              surname.</li>
            <li>The body text begins with birth and death date and place information, as available,
              marked with * and +. Tag the birth and death information in a &lt;rilmPerson> element
              and link to the name via @corresp.</li>
            <li>Lists of works and or writings by and about the person. Each such list with a head
              in all capitals should go in its own &lt;div>. <ul>
                <li>Use &lt;div type="works"> for lists headed SCHRIFTEN or WERKE;</li>
                <li>Use &lt;div type="ography"> for lists headed LITERATURE;</li>
                <li>Some Bibliographies are abbreviated and keyed to the list at the beginning of
                  the book. Tag these as &lt;bibl> and &lt;abbr>. </li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Geographic Articles</b> have headings in bold, immediately followed by a LITERATURE
          head. These will have only &lt;div type="heading"> and &lt;div type="ography">. </li>
        <li><b>See references</b> are in the form [<b>Surname Forename</b>, s. Forename
          Surname].</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Please refer also to sample files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
