<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="../tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>Stringed Instruments of the Middle Ages (Panum)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
        <div><h4 id="psi">Stringed Instruments of the Middle Ages</h4></div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201806" title="Added 6/2018">
      <p>This title will be converted from PDF prepared by LM Tech to XML plus split-PDFs. Please create a new text layer in the split PDFs, as the OCR accuracy is currently very poor. </p>
        <p>Replace quotation marks (“ and ”) with &lt;q&gt; tags.</p>
      <p>There are no bibliographies or discographies within the articles.</p>
      <ul>
                <li>Omit all blank pages in the given PDF from the split PDF files.</li>
                <li>Omit the three pages that carry the "Book I.", "Book II.", and "Book III." titles (page 23 of the PDF, for example).</li>
        <li>
          <p>Most of the titles and section heads are printed in all-capital letters or small caps. Please normalize case throughout to US-English title case.</p>
        </li>
                <li>Omit the "Book" and "Part" indicators elsewhere, and use the text in the
          document <a href="http://rilm.info/ft/instructions/Panum-list-of-articles.xhtml"
            >Panum-list-of-articles</a> to create and title the individual articles. Divide
          according to the page numbers given, and populate the two title fields of the TEI files as
          indicated, but retain the lettering and numbering of internal headings. <ul>
            <li>Omit the half-title page. Create TEI files for the frontispiece, title page, and
              printer's mark as indicated on the list-of-articles. </li>
            <li>Start a new &lt;div type="section"> wherever there is a heading in the print that
              is on its own line OR is set in italic type in-line with the beginning of the
              paragraph. For example, "B. The True Harp" on page 102 should start a &lt;div
              type="section"> that has five sections nested within it:<ul>
                <li>The Harp Among the Anglo-Saxons (p.104)</li>
                <li> In Ireland (p.105)</li>
                <li>In Wales (p.108)</li>
                <li>In the Scandinavian Countries (p.111)</li>
                <li> On the Continent (p.112)</li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Capture each figure in a separate image file and embed in the TEI in its own &lt;figure>
          or &lt;notatedMusic> element.</li>
        <li>Create a single TEI file and PDF file for the index.</li>
        <li>Create a single TEI file and PDF file for the pages following the index. The page
          numbering restarts from "1"; please use "B1–B48" as the numbering in the TEI file. Title
          as given in <a href="http://rilm.info/ft/instructions/Panum-list-of-articles.xhtml"
            >Panum-list-of-articles</a>.</li> Tag as &lt;text type="advertisement">, and mark up lists as &lt;div type="ograpy">, with list, item, and bibls. </ul>
      <p>Please also refer to the example file.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>