<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link href="./tei.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <title>A Survey of Musical Instruments (Marcuse)</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a>
      <div><h4 id="msu">A Survey of Musical Instruments (Marcuse)</h4></div>
    </a>
    <div class="r201807" title="Added 7/2018">
      <ol>
        <li><b>General notes</b>:<ul>
            <li>This title will be converted from scanned print. Please create a whole-volume PDF as
              well as article-level XML and METS-ALTO.</li>
            <li>All entries will be &lt;text type="instrument">.</li>
            <li>There are many stamps "Branch county library" throughout the volume; omit them.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Front Matter</b>: <ul>
            <li>Title pages (omit the half-title; omit the library stamp)</li>
            <li>Copyright page</li>
            <li>Contents</li>
            <li>Illustrations; general notes</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><b>Entries</b>: Use the provided <a href="Marcuse-survey-list-of-articles.xhtml">list of
            articles</a> to create and title the individual articles. Divide according to the page
          numbers given, and populate the two title fields of the TEI files as indicated. If there
          are internal heads remaining in a given article, start a new &lt;div type="section"> at
          that point.<ul>
            <li><b>Cross</b>-references may appear in parenthesis the form "(See page xxx)" or
              simply "(page x)". If you can catch these, make a &lt;ref> pointing to the entry
              containing that page or pages.</li>
          </ul></li>
            <li><b>Two indexes</b> are given at the end of the volume: names ("Nominum") and  terms
          ("Rerum"). Tag the index terms within the text of the articles as per the <a
            href="http://rilm.info/ft/tei_rilm_instructions.html#indexes">general encyclopedia
            instructions</a> for indexes.</li>
        </ol>
      <p>Please also refer to the example files.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
